Accenture Technical Placement Paper 2011

Are the expressions arr and &arr same for an array of integers? 

Does mentioning the array name gives the base address in all the contexts? 

Explain one method to process an entire string as one unit? 

What is the similarity between a Structure, Union and enumeration? 

Can a Structure contain a Pointer to itself? 

How can we check whether the contents of two structure variables are same or not? 

How are Structure passing and returning implemented by the complier? 

How can we read/write Structures from/to data files? 

What is the difference between an enumeration and a set of pre-processor # defines? 

what do the 'c' and 'v' in argc and argv stand for? 

Are the variables argc and argv are local to main? 

What is the maximum combined length of command line arguments including the space between adjacent arguments? 

If we want that any wildcard characters in the command line arguments should be appropriately expanded, are we required to make any special provision? If yes, which? 

Does there exist any way to make the command line arguments available to other functions without passing them as arguments to the function? 

What are bit fields? What is the use of bit fields in a Structure declaration? 

To which numbering system can the binary number 1101100100111100 be easily converted to? 

Which bit wise operator is suitable for checking whether a particular bit is on or off? 

Which bit wise operator is suitable for turning off a particular bit in a number? 

Which bit wise operator is suitable for putting on a particular bit in a number? 

Which bit wise operator is suitable for checking whether a particular bit is on or off? 

which one is equivalent to multiplying by 2:Left shifting a number by 1 or Left shifting an unsigned int or char by 1? 

Write a program to compare two strings without using the strcmp() function. 

Write a program to concatenate two strings. 

Write a program to interchange 2 variables without using the third one. 

Write programs for String Reversal & Palindrome check 

Write a program to find the Factorial of a number 

Write a program to generate the Fibinocci Series 

Write a program which employs Recursion 

Write a program which uses Command Line Arguments 

Write a program which uses functions like strcmp(), strcpy()? etc 

What are the advantages of using typedef in a program? 

How would you dynamically allocate a one-dimensional and two-dimensional array of integers?

