

TEST CODE	: TCS Ninja - Verbal Ability_5(R)

Total number of question	: 10

Test duration (min)	: 10 min

Correct attempt (mark)	: 1 

Wrong attempt (mark)	: -0.33



















VERBAL ABILITY



Question 1 

In the following sentences, there may be some errors in the parts which are marked as A, B, C, D. Identify the part which has errors.

1. She was a young girl with a pretty face, (A)/ very well trained in dancing (B)/ and who gave much promise of (C)/ a brilliant career as a film artist. (D)

a. A		b. B		c. C		d. D



Answer: C



Explanation: 

Correction: She was a young girl with a pretty face, very well trained in dancing and she gave much promise of a brilliant career as a film artist. 'Who' must be replaced with 'she'.



Question 2

Choose the most appropriate sentence which can replace the ‘Underlined’ sentence.

2. A conjunction is used to connect words and sentences together.

a. words and sentences together.

b. words or sentences together.

c. words and sentences.

d. words or sentences.



Answer: D



Explanation: 

Together is redundant. The conjunction does not couple words to sentences; it joins words, or it joins sentences. Hence the meaning is clearest in "words or sentences"



Question 3

For each sentence, choose the most appropriate option that best completes the given sentence.

3. In one shocking instance of ____ research, one of the nation’s most influential researchers in the field of genetics reported on experiments that were never carried out and published deliberately ____ scientific papers on his non-existent.

a. comprehensive, abstract

b. theoretical, challenging

c. fraudulent, deceptive

d. erroneous, impartial



Answer: C



Explanation: 

 The sentence speaks about experiments that never were carried out. This is an event of fraudulence.  In that case, the research results published will be deceptive in nature.

So the answer is "fraudulent, deceptive"

In each of the questions given below from the given options select the word which is closest in meaning to the word given in the question.



Question 4

Choose the most appropriate sentence which can replace the ‘Underlined’ phrase.

4. His wrong decision was just like the act of a giddy goat.

a. a slow act			b. a brave act

c. a foolish act			d. an obedient act



Answer: C



Explanation: 

The phrase ’act of a giddy goat’ means to behave foolishly.



Question 5

Choose the most logical order of sentences among the given choices to construct a coherent paragraph.

5. A. The provisions of the 73rd amendment were not made applicable to the areas inhabited by the Adivasi populations in many States of India.

B. Therefore, the new act protects the rights of these communities to manage their resources in ways acceptable to them.

C. In 1996, a separate act was passed extending the provisions of the Panchayat system to these areas.

D.  Many Adivasi communities have their traditional customs of managing common resources such as forests and small water reservoirs, etc.

a. CDBA         b. BDAC          c. ACDB	d. ADCB



Answer: C



Explanation: 

There is an AC link in the paragraph. Sentence A speaks about the act and its limitation. In Sentence B, that limitation is rectified. Among the four sentence, only Sentence A can be the topic sentence. So with this, option "ACDB" is the correct sequence of the paragraph.



Question 6 

In each of the questions given below from the given options select the word which is farthest in meaning to the word given in the question.

6. Indulge

a. abstain         b. quaff	     c. regress	d. absolve



Answer: A



Explanation: 

The word indulge means to give in to a craving or desire. To indulge is to willingly give in to a temptation. The opposite of

Indulge is to refrain from a desire. Because abstain means to refrain deliberately from something, 'abstain' is the answer. 

'Quaff' means to drink deeply or with pleasure. This is not the opposite of indulge. 

'Regress' means to move backward. This is not the opposite of indulge. 

'Absolve' means to clear from blame. This is not the opposite of indulge. 



Questions 7 to 10

Read the passage given below and choose the best option for the blanks.





7. Which of the following best fits blank 19?

a. condemn	b. accuse      c. charge	d. blame



Answer: D



Explanation: 

 Keyword: ‘Themselves’

• ‘Blame’ is to hold responsible for a fault. In this particular passage, the fault is that companies are failing to grow (“lack of growth”).

• ‘Charge’ and ‘accuse’ are also words which mean ‘holding responsible for a fault’, but the fault in both these cases is usually very strong (e.g.: A crime).

• Moreover, ‘charge’ and ‘accuse’ are NEVER used to refer to one holding oneself responsible. It is usually used to refer to, say “X holding Y responsible for a fault”.

E.g. the police charged him with stealing jewels from the store.

They accused him of stealing jewels from the store.

• ‘Condemn’ means official reprimand/criticism.

E.g.: The Principal condemned him for stealing school property.

Since ‘condemn’ is OFFICIAL reprimand/criticism (criticism which comes from an official higher authority), it is never used while referring to oneself.



8. Which of the following best fits blank 20?

a. admission	b. entry        c. access	d. entrance



Answer: C



Explanation: 

 • All four answer options share a meaning: ‘entry’ to some place.

• ‘Access’ has another meaning which is unique to the four answer options: ‘Ability to use’.

E.g.: Terrorists have access to the latest weapons in the world.

This meaning of ‘having the ability to use’ is what fits best in the sentence.

‘Investment capital’ means ‘investment money’. It is illogical to talk about entry/admission/entrance to money. The only logical option would be to talk about whether or not money is available and whether it can be utilized.

“...you shouldn’t waste much time wondering whether you have access to investment capital”, meaning you shouldn’t waste time wondering whether or not you have availability to investment capital.

• All four answer options share a meaning: ‘entry’ to some place.

• ‘Access’ has another meaning which is unique to the four answer options: ‘Ability to use’.

E.g.: Terrorists have access to the latest weapons in the world.

This meaning of ‘having the ability to use’ is what fits best in the sentence.

‘Investment capital’ means ‘investment money’. It is illogical to talk about entry/admission/entrance to money. The only logical option would be to talk about whether or not money is available and whether it can be utilized.

“...you shouldn’t waste much time wondering whether you have access to investment capital”, meaning you shouldn’t waste time wondering whether or not you have availability to investment capital.



9. Which of the following best fits blank 21?

a. currency	b. money        c. cash	d. banknote



Answer: A



Explanation: 

 • ‘Currency’, ‘cash’ and ‘banknote’ refer to the same thing: Money

• ‘Exchange rate’ is a formal business term. That is also the keyword here.

• Exchange of money happens between different countries. For example, exchange of money can be done between the USA and India. While doing that, one does not exchange 5000 cash/banknotes/money of India with 5000 cash/banknotes/money of the USA. One exchanges 5000 rupees, which is the CURRENCY of India with 93 dollars, which is the CURRENCY of the USA.

Hence ‘currency’ goes together with ‘exchange rate’.



10. Which of the following best fits blank 22?

a. specify			b. categories

c. identify			d. allocate



Answer: C



Explanation: 

ELIMINATION OF ‘CATEGORIES’:

• “more likely to ___”. We are looking for a verb (because of the presence of ‘to’—to+verb = infinitive). Thus we eliminate ‘categories’ (option B), which is not a verb.

ELIMINATION OF ‘ALLLOCATE’:

• ‘Allocate’ means allot/distribute. It would be illogical to talk about distributing/allotting barriers to success.

• ‘Allocate’ is best used when referring to resources.

E.g.: Half of the country’s budget was allocated to the educational sector.

‘SPECIFY’ vs. ‘IDENTIFY’:

• From a logical perspective, ‘Specify’ and ‘identify’ are good fits for the blank. To discriminate between the two, we look for a key phrase in the second part of the sentence: “by looking in the mirror”.

• There are two actions in the sentence.

Action 1: Specify/identify the main barrier to success

Action 2: by looking in the mirror

Action 2 is the method/means of achieving Action 1 (found by the word ‘by’)

• If one has to ‘specify’ something, the second part, which mentions the means/method of doing it, is not relevant. If ‘specify’ were the answer, the sentence would be complete even without Action 2.

E.g.: The barrier to success was specified clearly.

• Only while ‘identifying’ the barrier would one need a means/method of identification.

“...identify the main barrier to greater success”

How? --- “by looking in the mirror”



