

TEST CODE	: TCS Ninja - Verbal Ability_2

Total number of question	: 10

Test duration (min)	: 10 min

Correct attempt (mark)	: 1 

Wrong attempt (mark)	: Nil



















VERBAL ABILITY



Questions 1 to 2

In the following sentences, there may be some errors in the parts which are marked as A, B, C, D. Identify the part which has errors.

1. Raji found it difficult (A)/ to manage single-handedly the three children (B)/ who were always quarrelling (C)/ between themselves. (D)

a. A		b. B		c. C		d. D



Answer: D



Explanation: 

 Correction: Raji found it difficult to manage single-handedly the three children who were always quarrelling among themselves.

As there are three children, 'among' is the suitable word to use instead of between.



2. Fluosol is a transparency liquid (A)/ that closely resembles water (B)/ but in fact is twice (C)/ as dense as it is. (D)

a. A		b. B		c. C		d. D



Answer: A



Explanation: 

 Correction: Fluosol is a transparent liquid that closely resembles water but in fact is twice as dense as it is. 'Transparency' is a noun and transparent is its adjective form. The adjective must be used in order to describe anything.



Question 3

Choose the most appropriate sentence which can replace the ‘Underlined’ sentence.

3. Moule’s review served as a welcome encouragement to the author: Hardy set to work with renewed vigor and finished the serial ahead of time.

a. served as a welcome encouragement to the author: Hardy

b. served a welcome encouragement to Hardy, and the author

c. was welcome as an encouragement to Hardy, the author

d. was a welcome encouragement to the author, Hardy



Answer: D



Explanation: 

 The sentence is fine as it is. All the other options are all incorrect because they contain the ‘comma splice’ error – you cannot join two complete sentences with only a comma, you need a conjunction or a colon or semicolon. The expression ‘served a welcome’ is unidiomatic; ‘served as’ is correct in this case.



Question 4

For each sentence, choose the most appropriate option that best completes the given sentence.

4. Hawkins is ____ in his field; no other contemporary scientist commands the same respect.

a. preeminent			b. ignominious

c. obsolete			d. Anachronistic



Answer: A



Explanation: 

 The part after the semicolon tells us that Hawkins is highly respected. Hence, the only suitable word is preeminent. (All the others have negative connotations.)

(Disparaged = criticized; ignominious = shameful; obsolete = outdated; anachronistic = in the wrong time period; preeminent = foremost, famous)



Question 5 

Choose the most logical order of sentences among the given choices to construct a coherent paragraph.

5. A. Often we are prone to assume that all families are like the ones we live in.

B. No other social institution appears more universal and unchanging.

C. Sociology and social anthropology have over many decades conducted field research across cultures to show how the institutions of family, marriage and kinship are important       in all societies and yet their character is different in different societies.

D. Perhaps no other social entity appears more ‘natural’ than the family.

a. DABC      b. ABCD     c. BACD     d. DACB

Answer: A



Explanation: 

 The sequence DABC is the most meaningful sequence from among the options.



Question 6 

In each of the questions given below from the given options select the word which is closest in meaning to the word given in the question.

6. Bairn

a. Adult     b. Child     c. Senior     d. Sophomore



Answer: B



Explanation: 

 Bairn - A child: son or daughter



Question 7 

In each of the questions given below from the given options select the word which is farthest in meaning to the word given in the question.

7. Culpable

a. ineffable  b. Incriminated   c. innocent	  d. Indignant



Answer: C



Explanation: 

 The word culpable means deserving of blame. A thief is culpable for the crime of robbery or theft. The opposite of culpable is blameless or not deserving of blame. Because innocent means guiltless or not deserving of blame, 'innocent' is the answer.

'Ineffable' means unutterable or inexpressible. This is not the opposite of culpable. 

'Incriminated' means accused. This is not the opposite of culpable. 

'Indignant' means angry at a perceived injustice. 



Question 8

Select the lettered pair that best expresses a relationship similar to that expressed by the original pair.

8. DOMINO: MASQUERADE::  

a. tango : dance	           	    	b. violin : concert

c. tuxedo : prom		d. taxi : limousine



Answer: C



Explanation: 

 One meaning of domino is a mask or a masked costume worn to a masquerade. The tuxedo is the proper prom costume.



Question 9

Choose the most appropriate sentence which can replace the ‘Underlined’ phrase.

9.	Traffic was really slow on the freeway this morning because of a fender-bender in one of the westbound lanes.

a. congested traffic		b. automobile accident

c. police surveillance		d. divider damage



Answer: B



Explanation: 

 The phrase ’fender-bender’ refers to an automobile accident. 



Question 10 

Directions for questions: Choose the most logical fit for each blank.

10. Kalyan found it hard to ______ himself from the problem he had created by producing fake documents.

a. Extricate     b. Abstain     c. Alienate     d. Estrange



Answer: A



Explanation: 

 Option "Extricate":

Rebuke – Criticise

One would never ‘rebuke oneself from something’; one would always ‘rebuke oneself for something’

Option "Abstain": One would never ‘engulf oneself from something’; ‘one would always engulf oneself in something’.

Options "Alienate" vs. "Estrange":

Oust – Expel

Extricate – Remove

When using ‘oust’, one would never use the expression ‘ousting himself’. 

E.g. sentence: Saddam Hussein was ousted from the post of Iraqi President.

Thus Option "Extricate" is the perfect fit.

