

TEST CODE	: TCS Ninja - Verbal Ability_6(R)

Total number of question	: 10

Test duration (min)	: 10 min

Correct attempt (mark)	: 1

Wrong attempt (mark)	: -0.33



















VERBAL ABILITY



Question 1

In the following sentences, there may be some errors in the parts which are marked as A, B, C, D. Identify the part which has errors.

1. I do not wish to make a formal (A)/ complaint, but I would have been better pleased (B)/if you gave the (C)/award to the person who best deserved it.(D)/

a. A		b. B		c. C		d. D



Answer: C



Explanation: 

Change gave to had given because the verb in the previous clause is in the past conditional tense.



Question 2

Choose the most appropriate sentence which can replace the ‘Underlined’ phrase.

2. He refused to co-operate with me, and thus threw a spanner on my plan.

a. executed			b. left me alone with

c. sabotaged			d. restructured



Answer: C



Explanation: 

 ’To throw a spanner on something’ is to spoil it from succeeding. 



Question 3

Directions for questions: Choose the most logical fit for each blank.

3. Shilpa Shetty was cleared of all allegations; she was free of all charges ______against her.

a. accused			b. alleged

c. levelled			d. vindicated



Answer: C



Explanation: 

The word in the blank is an adjective for ‘charges’.

Option "accused":

Accused – To charge (someone) with an offence

‘Accused’ is always followed by who is being accused.

E.g. sentence: He accused me of stealing his notebook.

‘Accused’ is always followed by the preposition ‘of’. In the given sentence, the word immediately following the blank is NOT ‘of’. Hence option a is eliminated.

Option "alleged":

Alleged – Claim without proof

E.g. sentence: One of the Delhi gang-rapists alleged that he was innocent of the crime.

‘Alleged’ is not an adjective, but a verb. Thus it cannot be chosen as the answer.

Option "vindicated": 

Vindicated – To clear of blame/suspicion

E.g. sentence: He felt vindicated after all the charges were dropped.

‘Vindicated’ is used to describe people and NOT ‘charges’.

Option "levelled":

Levelled (v.) – Directed

This meaning fits perfectly when describing ‘charges’. This is thus the answer. 



Question 4 

Choose the most logical order of sentences among the given choices to construct a coherent paragraph.

4. A. There are more than 20 major languages and several hundred minor ones and it is the home of several major religions.

B. There are several million indigenous peoples living in different parts of the country.

C. In spite of all these diversities we share a common land mass.

D. India is a land of continental proportions and immense diversities.

a. DABC	           b. DCBA              c. CABD	       d. BACD



Answer: A



Explanation: 

It is very clear that only D can be the beginning sentence and C the ending sentence. The correct sequence is "DABC".



Questions 5 to 10

Read the passage given below and choose the best option for the blanks.





5.Which of the following best fits blank 23?

a. achieved			b. drawn

c. acquired			d. obtained



Answer: B



Explanation: 

 • Certain usages in English are always set pairs. One such example is ‘drawing conclusions’. 

• We think in terms of images. Dan Brown, the famous author of ‘The Da Vinci Code’ once talked about his childhood in an interview. When he grew up, Brown never had a TV at home. He looked back at having grown up without a TV, with great happiness. He said, “When you watch a lot of TV, you stop thinking because television paints the picture for you. But when you read books, you paint your own pictures.”

• For example, when you read a biography of Adolph Hitler, you form an opinion (conclusion) about him. The conclusion/opinion you form is the image you paint/draw in your mind. Thus the process of reading and understanding a piece of work is similar to looking at a picture and understanding it. Hence the usage of ‘drawing  conclusions’.

• Moreover, there is the usage of ‘drawing (withdrawing) money from an ATM’ or ‘drawing water from a well’. This usage of ‘drawing conclusions’ is of the same kind.



6. Which of the following best fits blank 24?

a. clear	       b. distinct	    c. resolved	   d. defined



Answer: A



Explanation: 

“The research makes the reason ____: management behaviour is often the root of the problem.”

Observations made from the aforementioned sentence:

1. The blank must be filled with an ‘adjective’. This adjective qualifies the noun ‘reason’.

2. The part which follows the colon is where the reason has been elaborated.

ELIMINATION OF ‘DEFINED’:

• ‘Defined’, by itself, is NOT an adjective. It is merely a verb. If one has to use ‘defined’ as an adjective, one has to add words like ‘clearly’/’well’.

 E.g.: Clearly defined/well-defined

Hence, since ‘defined’ is NOT an adjective by itself, it is eliminated.

ELIMINATION OF ‘RESOLVED’:

• Resolve = Find a solution to

‘Resolve’ is used only with problems and issues, because only problems/issues can have solutions found for. It is illogical to talk about finding a solution for a ‘reason’.

E.g.: The problem of frequent theft in the building was resolved by hiring a security guy.

ELIMINATION OF ‘DISTINCT’:

• Distinct = Different/Unique

‘Distinct’ would not be a grammatically wrong fit for the blank, if we are trying to refer to the ‘reason’ as being ‘distinct’.

“The research makes the reason distinct:.....”

• However, if ‘distinct’ is used in the blank, the part which follows the colon should talk about what makes the reason distinct. That is not the case here.

The part which follows the colon merely states WHAT THE REASON is, not what makes the reason distinct. Hence ‘distinct’ is eliminated.

CASE FOR ‘CLEAR’:

• “The research makes the reason clear:….”

The follow up question is ‘So what is the reason?’ – “Management behaviour is often the root of the problem.”



7. Which of the following best fits blank 25

a. foundation	b. ground	c. base		d. root



Answer: D



Explanation: 

• All the answer options seem to be similar, for all the options refer to a starting point.

• The accepted and popular way of looking at a problem is like looking at a tree. Just like how a tree grows when uncut; a problem grows and becomes bigger when unchecked. The cause (starting point) of problem is usually referred to as the ‘root’ of the problem. 

Popular usages: 

1. “Money is the root of all evil” is a famous proverb.

2. ‘Root cause analysis’ is a common technical term used to refer to the process of finding the cause of any engineering problem.



8. Which of the following best fits blank 26?

a. notified			b. expressed

c. informed			d. addressed



Answer: B



Explanation: 

 Keyword: “View”

ELIMINATION OF ‘NOTIFIED’ AND ‘INFORMED’:• ‘Notified’ and ‘informed’ are synonyms. Both words are used usually only when referring to a piece of information, not when used with views/opinions.

E.g. 1: The staff members were informed of the delay in the meeting.

E.g. 2: The staff members were notified of the delay in the meeting.

ELIMINATION OF ‘ADDRESSED’:

• ‘Addressed’ can have two meanings: ‘Talk to (a gathering)’ and ‘deal with (an issue)’. 

E.g. 1: The Prime Minister addressed the people of India on the eve of Independence Day.

E.g. 2: The Prime Minister addressed the issue of terrorism during his Independence Day speech.

It is again not applicable to be used with views/opinions.

• A view is a personal opinion put forward by someone. Hence it is only logical to say that views are ‘expressed’.



9. Which of the following best fits blank 27?

a. caught       b. occupied         c. held	    d. contained



Answer: B



Explanation: 

 “...day to day issues ____ all their time.”

Keyword: Time

• ‘Contained’ and ‘caught’ are words which are never used with ‘time’. ‘Contained’ in particular is more often used with specific quantified objects. Hence they are eliminated.

• ‘Held’ when used as ‘held up’ would mean ‘delay’, a context relevant to ‘time’.

E.g.: I was held up in traffic and was thus late to the meeting.

However, due to the absence of the word ‘up’ following the blank, ‘held’ cannot be used here.

• ‘Occupied’ would be the best fit, for it means ‘filling up (time or space)’.



10. Which of the following best fits blank 28?

a. significance			b. meaning

c. definition			d. sense



Answer: A



Explanation: 

 Keyword: Minor

• Let X be the answer. X, in the sentence, is attributed to as minor X. This means that X is an item which has got several degrees/levels: Major level and minor level.

• ‘Meaning’, ‘definition’ and ‘sense’ are all items which will never go together with ‘minor’, because it is illogical to talk about several degrees/levels of all of them.

I.e. There is no major/minor meaning, no major/minor definition and no major/minor sense. All three items are very singular, in the sense that they are either present or absent. 

E.g.: Meaning and lack of meaning, sense and lack of sense, definition and lack of definition.

• ‘Significance’ means importance. There can be levels of significance, i.e. major and minor importance. Thus ‘significance’ is the best fitting answer.



