

TEST CODE	: TCS17-03T

Total number of question	: 10

Test duration (min)	: 20 min

Correct attempt (mark)	: 1 

Wrong attempt (mark)	: Nil



















TECHNICAL



Certain questions are self-explanatory. Thus detailed solutions are provided only wherever required.



1. Assume int is 4 bytes, char is 1 byte and float is 4 bytes. Also, assume that pointer size is 4 bytes (i.e. typical case)

char *p;

int *q;

float *r;



sizeof(p);

sizeof(q);

sizeof(r);

a. 4 4 4			b. 1 4 4

c. 1 4 8			d. None of the mentioned



Answer: A



Explanation: 

 Irrespective of the type of pointer, the size for a pointer is always same. So whether it’s pointer to char or pointer to float, the size of any pointer would be same. Even size of a pointer to user defined data type (e.g. struct) is also would be same.



2. Continue statement used for

a. to continue the next line of code

b. to stop the current iteration and begin the next iteration from the beginning

c. to handle runtime error

d. None of the mentioned



Answer: B



 3. What will be the output of following program?

a. error	           b. 0	c. 10	d. Garbage value



Answer: B



4. What is the use of \r in C?

a. used to insert a vertical tab

b. used to insert a tab

c. places cursor at the end of line

d. places cursor at the start of line

Answer: D



5. In the context of the following printf() in C, pick the best statement.

i) printf("%d",8);

ii) printf("%d",090);

iii) printf("%d",00200);

iv) printf("%d",0007000);

a. Only i) would compile. And it will print 8.

b. Both i) and ii) would compile. i) will print 8 while ii) will print 90

c. All i), ii), iii) and iv) would compile successfully and they will print 8, 90, 200 & 7000 respectively.q

d. Only i), iii) and iv) would compile successfully. They will print 8, 128 and 3584 respectively.



Answer: D



Explanation: 

 As per C standard, "An octal constant consists of the prefix 0 optionally followed by a sequence of the digits 0 through 7 only."So 090 isn’t valid because 0 prefix is used for octal but 9 isn’t valid octal-digit.



6. What’s going to happen when we compile and run the following C program?

a. Compile Error.

b. No compile error but it will run into infinite loop printing FACE

c. No compile error and it’ll print FACE 10 times

d. No compile error but it’ll print FACE 9 times.



Answer: C



Explanation: 

 Basically, even though for loop doesn’t have any of three expressions in parenthesis, the initialization, control and increment has been done in the body of the loop. So j would be initialized to 0 via first if. This if itself would be executed only once due to i--. Next if and else blocks are being used to check the value of j and existing the loop if j becomes 10. Please note that j is getting incremented in printf even though there’s no format specifier in format string. That’s why FACE would be printed for j=0 to j=9 i.e. a total of 10 times.

7. The compiler in C ignores all test till the end of line using

a. //			b. /

c. */			d. None of the mentioned



Answer: A



8. UML Meaning is

a. Unique modeling language

b. Unified modeling language

c. Unified modern language

d. Unified master language



Answer: B



9. Disadvantage of array in C is

a. We can easily access each element

b. It is necessary to declare too many variables

c. It can store only one similar type of data

d. None of the mentioned



Answer: C

 

10. What is wild pointer in C

a. a pointer which we need to write in future

b. a pointer which has had naming convention

c. a pointer which had no limit

d. a pointer which has not initialized



Answer: D

