

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Infosys Puzzles Collection for Freshers 
1. There is a escalator and 2 persons move down it. A takes 50 steps 
and B takes 75 steps while the escalator is moving down. Given that 
the time taken by A to take 1 step is equal to time taken by B to take 
3 steps. Find the no. of steps in the escalator while it is stationary. 
Ans= (s1*t2 ~ s2*t1) / (t1 ~ t2) which gives 100. so 100 steps is the answer 
2. If 5/2 artists make 5/2 paintings using 5/2 canvases in 5/2 days 
then how many artists r required to make 25 paintings using 25 
canvases in 25 days? 
Ans: -- 
3. If the digits of my present age are reversed then I get the age of 
my son. If 1 year ago my age was twice as that of my son. Find my 
present age. 
Ans. father-73, son-37 
4. There are 6561 balls out of them 1 is heavy. Find the min. no. of 
times the balls have to be weighed for finding out the heavy ball. 
Ans. 8 
5. If I walk with 30 miles/hr I reach 1 hour before and if I walk with 
20 miles/hr I reach 1 hour late. Find the distance between 2 points 
and the exact time of reaching destination is 11 am then find the 
speed with which it walks. 
Ans. 120miles and 24 miles/hr 
6. There r four face cards (J, Q, K, A) all of different 
types(diamond, club, spade, heart) and some conditions r given. 
find the order of cards 
Ans. king -> jack -> queen -> ace heart diamond spade club 
7. If A, B, C, D, E r 5 members of a family.4 of them give true 
statements : 
1. E is my mother in law 
2. C is my son in law's brother 
3. B is my father's brother 
4. A is my brother's wife 
Who made the stmt. and what is the relations among them 
Ans. E 
 | 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
A<-->B--C  
| 
D 
<--> denotes husband-wife 
 -- denotes brothers 
8. The product of 5 different temperatures is 12.If all of then r 
integers then find all the temperatures 
Ans.-2,-1, 1, 2, 3 
9.There r 9 cities numbered 1 to 9.From how many cities the flight 
can start so as to reach the city 8 either directly or indirectly such 
the path formed is divisible by 3. 
Ans. 1368-Flights goes through 1-3-6-8. 
10. If i do this puzzle i find it to be hard than the last puzzle that i 
did before that after that..............very complex stmt. 
Ans. Is that puzzle difficult, easy, can't say or depends on the no. of puzzles 
11. Replace each letter by a digit. Each letter must be represented 
by the same digit and no beginning letter of a word can be 0. 
O N E 
O N E 
O N E 
O N E 
 ------- 
T E N 
------- 
Ans: 0 =1, N = 8, E = 2, T = 7. 
12. Ann, Boobie, Cathy and Dave are at their monthly business 
meeting. Their occupations are author, biologist, chemist and 
doctor, but not necessarily in that order. Dave just told the 
biologist that Cathy was on her way with doughnuts. Ann is sitting 
across from the doctor and next to the chemist. The doctor was 
thinking that Boobie was a goofy name for parent's to choose, but 
didn't say anything. What is each person's occupation? 
Ans: Since Dave spoke to the biologist and Ann sat next to the chemist and 
across the doctor, Cathy must be the author and Ann the biologist. The doctor 
didn't speak, but David did, so Bobbie is the doctor and Dave the chemist. 
13. Sometime after 10:00 PM a murder took place. A witness 
claimed that the clock must have stopped at the time of the 
shooting. It was later found that the position of both the hands 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
were the same but their positions had interchanged. Tell the time 
of the shooting (both actual and claimed). 
Ans: Time of shooting = 11:54 PM Claimed Time = 10:59 PM. 
14. Next number in the series is 1, 2, 4, 13, 31, 112,? 
Ans: 224.No number has digits more than 4. All of them are 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 
64 converted to numbers in base 5. 
15. Shahrukh speaks truth only in the morning and lies in the 
afternoon, whereas Salman speaks truth only in the afternoon. A 
says that B is Shahrukh. Is it morning or afternoon and who is A - 
Shahrukh or Salman? 
Ans: Afternoon. A is Salman. 
16. Two trains starting at same time, one from Bangalore to My 
sore and other in opposite direction arrive at their destination 1 hr 
and 4 hours respectively after passing each other. How much faster 
is one train from other? 
Ans: Twice. 
17. There are 6 volumes of books on a rack kept in order ( i.e. vol.1, 
vol. 2 and so on ). Give the position after the following changes 
were noticed. All books have been changed Vol.5 was directly to the 
right of Vol.2 Vol.4 has Vol.6 to its left and both weren't at Vol.3's 
place.Vol.1 has Vol.3 on right and Vol.5 on left. An even numbered 
volume is at Vol.5's place Find the order in which the books are 
kept now. 
Ans: 2, 5,1,3,6,4. 
18. I bought a car with a peculiar 5 digit numbered license plate 
which on reversing could still be read. On reversing value is 
increased by 78633.Whats the original number if all digits were 
different? 
Ans: Only 0 1 6 8 and 9 can be read upside down. So on rearranging these 
digits, we get the answer as 10968. 
19. The shape in the sketch below is that of a square attached to half 
of a similar square. Divide it into four equal pieces. 
Ans: Hint : The figure can be divided into 12 equal triangles. 
(20) There are two balls touching each other circumferentially. The 
radius of the big ball is 4 times the diameter of the small all. The 
outer small ball rotates in anticlockwise direction 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
circumferentially over the bigger one at the rate of 16 rev/sec. The 
bigger wheel also rotates anticlockwise at N rev/sec. What is 'N' for 
the horizontal line from the centre of small wheel always is 
horizontal. 
Ans: -- 
(21) 
1 2 3 4 
+ 3 4 5 5 
---------- 
4 6 8 9 
- 2 3 4 5 
---------- 
2 3 4 4 
+ 1 2 5 4 
------------ 
3 6 9 8 
------------ 
Ans. Strike off any digit from each number in seven rows (need not be at 
same place) and combine the same operations with 3 digit numbers to get the 
same addition. After this strike off another digit from all and add all the Nos. 
to get the same 2 digit No. perform the same process again with 1 digit Nos. 
Give the ' nods in 7 rows at each stage. 
(22) There is a safe with a 5 digit No. The 4th digit is 4 greater than 
second digit, while 3rd digit is 3 less than 2nd digit. The 1st digit is 
thrice the last digit. There are 3 pairs whose sum is 11. Find the 
number. 
Ans: 65292. 
(23) There are 2 guards Bal and Pal walking on the side of a wall of 
a warehouse(12m X 11m) in opposite directions. They meet at a 
point and Bal says to Pal "See you again in the other side". After a 
few moments of walking Bal decides to go back for a smoke but he 
changes his direction again to his previous one after 10 minutes of 
walking in the other opposite) direction remembering that Pal will 
be waiting for to meet. If Bal and Pal walk 8 and 11 feet 
respectively, how much distance they would have traveled before 
meeting again. 
Ans: -- 
24. 13 kgs and 6 libs can produce 510 tors in 10 hrs, 8 kgs and 14 
libs can produce 484 tors in 12 hrs. 
Ans. Find the rate of production of tors for kgs and libs. Express the answer 
in tors/hr. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
(25) 
xxx)xxxxx(xxx 
3xx 
------- 
xxx 
x3x 
------- 
xxx 
3xx 
------- 
Ans. Find the 5 digit No. Hint: 5 is used at least once in the calculation. 
(26) A fly is there 1 feet below the ceiling right across a wall length 
is 30m at equal distance from both the ends. There is a spider 1 feet 
above floor right across the long wall equidistant from both the 
ends. If the width of the room is 12m and 12m, what distance is to 
be traveled by the spider to catch the fly, if it takes the shortest 
path. 
Ans: -- 
(27) Ramesh sit around a round table with some other men. He has 
one rupee more than his right person and this person in turn has 1 
rupee more than the person to his right and so on, Ramesh decided 
to give 1 rupee to his right & he in turn 2 rupees to his right and 3 
rupees to his right & so on. This process went on till a person has 
'no money' to give to his right. At this time he has 4 times the 
money to his right person. How many men are there along with 
Ramesh and what is the money with poorest fellow. 
Ans: -- 
 (28)Question related to probabilities of removing the red ball from 
a basket, given that two balls are removed from the basket and the 
other ball is red. The basket contains 
Ans. blue, red, yellow balls. 
(29) Venkat has 1boy&2daughters.The product of these children 
age is 72.The sum of their ages give the door number of Venkat. 
Boy is elder of three. Can you tell the ages of all the three. 
Ans: -- 
(30) L: says all of my other 4 friends have money 
M: says that P said that exact one has money 
N: says that L said that precisely two have money 
O: says that M said that 3 of others have money. 
P: L and N said that they have money. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Ans. All are liars. Who has money & who doesn't have? 
(31)Post man has a data of name surname door number, pet name 
of 4 families. But only one is correct for each family. There are a set 
of statements & questions. 
Ans: -- 
(33) 4 couples have a party. Depending on the set of statements, 
find who insulted whom and who is the host of the party. 
Ans: -- 
 (34) 5 women given some of their heights (tall, medium, short) 
Hair( long, plainted), stards(Black or Brown), sari,2 medium,2-
short.Tall->no sari. Plainted->medium.  
Answer: the combinations. 
(35) A person has to go both Northwards & Southwards in search of 
a job. He decides to go by the first train he encounters. There are 
trains for every 15 min both southwards and northwards. First 
train towards south is at 6:00 A.M. and that towards North is at 
6:10. If the person arrives at any random time, what is the 
probability that he gets into a train 
Ans. towards North. 
(36) A person has his own coach&. Whenever he goes to railway 
station he takes his coach. One day he was supposed to reach the 
railway station at 5 O'clock. But he finished his work early and 
reached at 3 O'clock. Then he rung up his residence and asked to 
send the coach immediately. He came to know that the coach has 
left just now to the railway station. He thought that the coach has 
left just now to the railway station. He thought that he should not 
waste his time and started moving towards his residence at the 
speed of 3 miles/hr. On the way, he gets the coach and reaches 
home at 6 o'clock. How far is his residence from railway station. 
Ans: -- 
 (37) Radha, Geeta & Revathi went for a picnic. After a few days 
they forgot the date, day and month on which they went to picnic. 
Radha said that it was on Thursday, May 8 and Geeta said that it 
was Thursday May 10. Revathi said Friday Jun 8. Now one of them 
told all things wrongly, others one thing wrong and the last two 
things wrongly. If April 1st is Tuesday, what is the right day, date 
and month? 
Ans: -- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
38. There is 66x33m rectangular area. Ram is 11/8 times faster 
than Krishna. Both of them started walking at opposite ends and 
they met at some point then, Ram said "See you in the other end" 
Then they continued walking. After some time Ram thought he will 
have tea so he turned back walked back 15 meters then he changed 
his mind again and continued walking. How much Krishna has 
traveled by the time they meet? 
Ans: -- 
39. There are 5 burglars and once went to a bakery to rob it 
obviously The first guy ate 1/2 of the total bread and 1/2 of the 
bread. The second guy ate 1/2 of the remaining and 1/2 of the 
bread. The third guy ,fourth guy and fifth guy did the same. After 
fifth guy there is no bread left out. How many bread are there? 
Ans: -- 
40. All members belonging to D are members of A. All members 
belonging to E are members of D. All members belonging to C are 
members of both A & D. Some members of A does not belong to D. 
All members belonging to D are members of E.5 questions are 
there. 
Ans: -- 
41. Write each statements true or false:- 
1. The sum of the 1st three statements and the 2nd false statement gives the 
true statement. 
2.The no. of true statements false statement. 
3. The sum of 2nd true statement and 1st false statement gives the first true 
statement. 
4. There are at most 3 false statements. 
5.There is no two consecutive true statements. 
42. There are twelve consecutive flags at an equal interval of 
distance. A man passes the 8th flag in 8 seconds. How many more 
seconds will he take to pass the remaining 4 flags? 
Ans: -- 
43. A person has to cover the fixed distance through his horses. 
There are five horses in the cart. They ran at the full potential for 
the 24 hours continuously at constant speed and then two of the 
horses ran away to some other direction. So he reached the 
destination 48 hours behind the schedule. If the five horses would 
have run 50 miles more, then the person would have been only 24 
hours late. Find the distance of the destination. 
Ans: -- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
44. A boat M leaves shore A and at the same time boat B leaves 
shore B. They move across the river. They met at 500 yards away 
from A and after that they met 300 yards away from shore B 
without halting at shores. Find the distance between the shore A & 
B. 
Ans: -- 
45. A person was going through train from Bombay to Pune. After 
every five minutes he finds a train coming from opposite direction. 
Velocity of trains are equal of either direction. If the person 
reached Pune in one hour then how many trains he saw in the 
journey? 
Ans: -- 
46. Food grains are to be sent to city from go down. Owner wants to 
reach the food grains at 11 O' Clock in the city. If a truck travels at a 
speed of 30km/hr then he will reach the city one hour earlier. If the 
truck travels at a speed of 20km/h then he will reach the city one 
hour late. Find the distance between the go down to city. Also with 
which speed the truck should travel in order to reach at exactly 11 
'O clock. 
Ans: -- 
47. There are five persons A, B, C, D, E whose birthdays occur at the 
consecutive days. Birthday of A is some days or day before C & 
birthday of B is exactly the same days or day after E. D is two days 
older than E. If birth day of C is on Wednesday then find out the 
birthdays of other. 
Ans: -- 
48. Persons say these statements. 
A says either Democratic or liberal wins the elections. 
B says Democratic wins. 
C says neither democratic nor liberal wins the election. 
Of these only one is wrong. Who wins the election? 
Ans: -- 
49. Six persons A,B,C,D,E, and F went to soldier cinema. There are 
six consecutive seats. A sits in the first seat followed by B, followed 
by C and so on. If A taken on of the six seats, then B should sit 
adjacent to A. C should sit adjacent to A or B. D should sit adjacent 
to A, B or C and so on. How many possibilities are there ? 
Ans: -- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
50. Suppose there are four grades A, B, C, D. (A is the best and D is 
the worst) 4 persons Jack, Jean, Poul and Lucy wrote the final 
exam and made the statements like this:- 
1. Jack: If I will get A then Lucy will get D. 
2. Lucy: If I will get C then Jack will get D. 
Jack grade is better than Poul grade. 
3. Jean: If Jean doesn't get A then Jack will not get A. 
4. Poul: If Jack get A, then Jean will not get B, Lucy will get C, I won't either A 
or B. 
Ans. If all the above statements are true, then which person will get which 
grade? 
51. Each man dances with 3 women, Each women dances with 3 
men. Among each pair of men they have exactly two women in 
common. Find the no. of men and women. 
Ans: -- 
52. A survey was taken among 100 people to find their preference 
of watching TV. programmes. There are 3 channels. Given no of 
people who watch at least channel 1, at least channel 2,at least 
channel 3, no channels at all, at least channels 1 and 3, at least 
channels 1 and 2, at least channels 2 and 3. Find the no of people 
who watched all three. 
Ans: -- 
53. A bird keeper has got P pigeon, M mynas and S sparrows. The 
keeper goes for lunch leaving his assistant to watch the birds. 
Suppose p=10, m=5, s=8. 
(a.) When the bird keeper comes back, the assistant informs that x birds have 
escaped. The bird keeper exclaims oh no! all my sparrows are gone. How 
many birds flew away. 
(b.) when the bird keeper come back, the assistant told him that x birds have 
escaped. The keeper realised that at least 2 sparrows have escaped. What is 
minimum no of birds that can escape. 
Ans: -- 
54. Select from the five alternatives A,B,C,D,and E. At the end of 
each question, two conditions will be given. The choices are to be 
filled as follows. 
A: If a definite conclusion can be drawn from condition 1. 
B: If a definite conclusion can be drawn from condition 2. 
C: If a definite conclusion can be drawn from condition 1 and 2. 
D: If a definite conclusion can be drawn from condition 1 or 2. 
E: No conclusion can be drawn using both conditions. 
1. Person 1 says N<5 
Person 2 says n>5. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Person 3 says 3N>20 
Person 4 says 3n>10 
Person 5 says N<8. 
Ans. What is the value of N? 
55. There are N coins on a table. There are two players A&B. You 
can take 1or 2 coins at a time. The person who takes the last coin is 
the loser. A always starts first. 
 
1. If N=7, then 
(a) A can always win by taking two coins in his first chance. 
(b) B can win only if A takes two coins in his first chance. 
(c) B can always win by proper play. 
(d) none of the above. 
2. A can win by proper play if N is equal to 
(a) 13                 (b) 37  
(c) 22                 (d) 34  
(e) 48 
Ans: E. 
3. B can win by proper play if N is equal to 
(a) 25                     (b)26  
(c) 32                     (d) 41  
(e) none 
4. if N<4, can A win by proper play always? 
56. There are 4 parties A,B,C,D. There are 3 people x, y, z. X-says A 
or D will win. Y-says A will not win. Z-says B or D will not win. Only 
one of them is true. Which party won? 
Ans: -- 
57. 5 persons R,S,T,U,V are contesting for a medal. Evaluation is 
over English, Math's, Physics, Chemistry and Hindi. Toper will get 
5 marks, least will get 1 mark. No ties any where. R get 24 and won 
the overall medal. V gets first in Chemistry and third in Hindi, T got 
consistent scores in 4 subjects. Their final standings where in the 
alphabetical order. What was the score of S in Chemistry. 
Ans: -- 
58. Persons A and B. Person A picks a random no. from 1 to 1000. 
Then person B picks a random no. from 1 to 1000. What is the 
probability of B getting no. greater then what A has picked? 
Ans: -- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
59. Three boys and three girls brought up together. Jim, Jane, 
Tom, Virgina, Dorthy, XXX. They marry among themselves to form 
three couples. Conditions are:- 
(i) Sum of their ages would be the same. 
(ii) Virgina was the oldest. 
(iii) Jim was Dorothy's brother. 
(iv) Sum of ages Jane Jim and Tom+dorthy is same. 
        Give the three couples. 
60. X^(1/3) - X^(1/9) =60. Solve for X. 
Ans: -- 
61. X Z Y+X Y Z = Y Z X. 
Ans. Find the three digits. 
62. Two boats start from opposite banks of river perpendicular to 
the shore. One is faster then the other. They meet at 720 yards from 
one of the ends. After reaching opposite ends rest for 10mins each. 
After that they start back. This time on the return journey they 
meet at 400yards from the other end of the river. Calculate the 
width of the river. 
Ans: -- 
63. Basketball Tournament organizers decided that two 
consecutive defeats will knock out the team. There are 51 teams 
participating. What is the maximum no. of matches that can be 
played. 
Ans: -- 
64. The Master says to his grandmaster that I and my three cousins 
have ages in prime nos. only. Summation of our ages is 50. 
Grandmaster who knows the age of the master instantly tells the 
ages of the three cousins. Tell the ages of three cousins. 
( 1 is not considered as prime no.) 
Ans: -- 
65. There are two families Alens and smiths. They have two 
children each. There names are A,B,C,D whose ages are different 
and ages are less then or equal to 11. The following conditions are 
given:- 
        (i) A's age is three years less then his brother's age . 
        (ii) B is eldest among the four. 
        (iii) C is half the age of the eldest in Alens family. 
        (iv) The difference in sum of the ages of Alens children and smith’s 
children is same as that of five years ago. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Ans. Find the ages of all the children. 
66. a, b, c, d, e are having numerical values. There are some 
conditions given:- 
(a) a=c <=== b!=e 
(b) Difference between a and c as same as difference between c and b as same 
as difference  
between a and d. 
(c) c<a and c>d. 
Ans. Then find a, b, c, d, e. 
67. There are six cards in which it has two king cards. all cards are 
turned down and two cards are opened. 
(a) What is the possibility to get at least one king. 
(b) What is the possibility to get two kings. 
Ans: -- 
68. There are 5 persons a, b, c, d, e and each is wearing a block or 
white cap on his head. A person can see the caps of the remaining 
four but can't see his own cap. A person wearing white says true 
and who wears block says false. 
(i) a says i see 3 whites and 1 block. 
(ii) b says i see 4 blocks. 
(iii) e says i see 4 whites. 
(iv) c says i see 3 blocks and 1 white. 
Now find the caps wearied by a, b, c, d and e. 
Ans: -- 
69. There are two women, kavitha and shamili and two males 
shyam, aravind who are musicians. Out of these four one is a 
pianist, one flutist, violinist and drummer. 
(i) Across aravind beats pianist. 
(ii) Across shyam is not a flutist. 
(iii) Kavitha's left is a pianist. 
(iv) Shamili's left is not a drummer.  
(v) Flutist and drummer are married. 
Ans: -- 
70. When Arthur is as old as his father Hailey is now, he shall be 5 
times as old as his son Clarke is now. By then, Clarke will be 8 
times older than Arthur is now. The combined ages of Hailey and 
Arthur are 100 years. How old is Clarke? 
Ans: -- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
71. The seven digits in this subtraction problem are 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 
and 6. Each letter represents the same digit whenever it occurs. 
D A D C B 
- E B E G 
-------------------- 
B F E G 
-------------------- 
What digit is represented by each letter? 
Ans: -- 
72. The Jones have named their four boys after favorite relatives; 
their friends, the Smiths, have done the same thing with their three 
boys. One of the families has twin boys. From the following clues, 
can you determine the families of all seven children and their ages? 
(i) Valentine is 4 years older than his twin brothers. 
(ii) Winston, who is 8, and Benedict are not brothers. They are each named 
after a grandfather. 
(iii) Briscoe is two years younger than his brother Hamilton, But three years 
older than Dewey. 
(iv) Decatur is 10 years old. 
(v) Benedict is 3 years younger than Valentine; they are not related. 
(vi) The twins are named for uncles. 
Ans: -- 
73. Motorboat A leaves shore P as B leaves Q; they move across the 
lake at a constant speed. They meet first time 600 yards from P. 
Each returns from the opposite shore without halting, and they 
meet 200 yards from. How long is the lake? 
Ans: -- 
74. On the Island of imperfection there is a special road, Logic 
Lane, on which the houses are usually reserved for the more 
mathematical inhabitants. Add, Divide and Even live in three 
different houses on this road (which has houses numbered from 1-
50). One of them is a member of the Pukka Tribe, who always tell 
the truth. Another is a member of the Wotta Tribe, who never tell 
the truth and the third is a member of the Shalla Tribe, who make 
statements which are alternately true and false, or false and true. 
They make statements as  
follows:- 
ADD: 
1. The number of my house is greater than that of Divide's. 
2. My number is divisible by 4. 
3. Even number differs by 13 from that of one of the others. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
DIVIDE : 
1. Odd number is divisible by 12. 
2. My number is 37. 
3. Even number is even. 
EVEN : 
1. No one's number is divisible by 10. 
2. My number is 30. 
3. Odd number is divisible by 3. 
Find to which tribe each of them belongs, and the number of each of their 
houses. 
Ans: -- 
75. The names of the inhabitants of Walkie Talkie Land sound 
strange to the visitors, and they find it difficult to pronounce them, 
due to their length and a few vowel sounds they contain. The 
Walkie Talkie guide is discussing the names of four inhabitants – 
A,B,C and D. Their names each contain upto eight syllables, 
although none of the four names contain the same number. Two of 
the names contain no vowel sounds; one contains one vowel sound; 
and one contains two vowel sounds. From the Guide's statements 
below, determine the number of syllables and vowel sounds in each 
of the four Walkie Talkie names:- 
(i) The one whose name contains two vowel sounds is not A. 
(ii) C's name does not contain more than one vowel sound or fewer than seven 
syllables. 
(iii) The name with seven syllables does not contain exactly one vowel sound. 
(iv) B and C do not have names with the same number of vowel sounds. 
(v) Neither the name with five syllables nor the name with seven syllables 
contains more than one vowel sound. 
(vi) Neither the name with six syllables, nor the B's name, contains two vowel 
sounds. 
Ans: -- 
76. Two identical twins have a very unusual characteristic. One 
tells nothing but lies on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, and 
tells nothing but the truth all other days. The other tells nothing 
but lies on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, and tells nothing 
but the truth all other days. On Sundays both children speak the 
truth. 
Ans: -- 
77. According to the information presented, which of the following 
conversations will be impossible. 
(a) Twin A : "Today you are a lire" Twin B : "You are telling the truth" 
(b) Twin A : "Today you are a lire" Twin B : "Today I am a truth teller" 
(c) Twin A : "Tomorrow I shall be a lire" Twin B : "That's correct" 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
(d) Twin A : "Tomorrow you will be a lire" Twin B : "Today you are a truth 
teller" 
(e) Twin A : "Yesterday we were both truth tellers" Twin B : "You are lying". 
Ans: -- 
78. Assume that the twins followed a different set of rules, so that 
on a given day both told only the truth while next day both only 
lied, alternating days of truth telling and lying. Under these rules, 
which of the following conversations would be possible? 
(a) Twin A : "Today you are a lire" Twin B : "That is correct" 
(b) Twin A : "Today you are a lire" Twin B : "That is not so" 
(c) Twin A : "Tomorrow we will be liars" Twin B : "Yesterday we were truth 
tellers" 
(d) Twin A : "Tomorrow we will be liars" Twin B : "You are 1 year older than I 
am" 
(e) Twin A : "We always tell the truth" Twin B : "We some times tell the truth". 
Ans: -- 
79. If the twins are heard saying the following on the same day, 
which choice presents a correct statement ? 
Twin A : "It is Sunday Today" 
Twin B : "Yesterday was Sunday" 
Twin A : "it is summer season now" 
(a) it is a summer Sunday. 
(b) it is a summer Monday. 
(c) it is Monday but not summer. 
(d) it is Sunday but not summer. 
(e) it is impossible to determine whether it is Sunday or Monday. 
Ans: -- 
80. In the month of October in a year has exactly four Mondays and 
four Fridays, find what day of week will be on the 20th of 
November of that year. 
Ans: 20th November was a Wednesday. 
81. Six persons A,B,C,D,E & F went to solider cinema. There are six 
consecutive seats. A sits in one of the seats followed by B, followed 
by C and soon. If a taken one of the six seats , then B should sit 
adjacent to A. C should sit adjacent A or B. D should sit adjacent to 
A, B,or C and soon. How many possibilities are there? 
Ans: 32 ways. 
83. In mathematica country 1,2,3,4....,8,9 are nine cities. Cities 
which form a no. that is divisible by 3 are connected by air planes. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
(e.g. cities 1 & 2 form no. 12 which divisible by 3 then 1 is connected 
to city 2). Find the total no. of ways you can go to 8 if you are 
allowed to break the journeys. 
Ans: 5. 
84. ABCDE are sisters. Each of them gives 4 gifts and each receives 
4 gifts No two sisters give the same combination ( e.g. if A gives 4 
gifts to B then no other sisters can give four to other one.)  
(i) B gives four to A. 
(ii) C gives 3 to E. 
How much did A,B,C,E give to D? 
Ans: Donor no of gifts A 1 B - C 1 D 2 
85. There are some bulbs, which are numbered from 1 to 100.all 
the bulbs are in on conditions. The following operations are 
performed:- 
1. Those bulbs number which are divisible by 2 are switched OFF. 
2. Those bulbs numbered which are divisible by 3 are switched ON (which are 
already OFF) and OFF bulbs are switched ON. 
3. Similarly bulbs numbers divisible by 4 are either switched ON or OFF 
depending upon there previous condition. 
4. This procedure is adopted till 100th bulb. At the end there were how many 
bulbs which were in ON condition? 
Ans: 10 ( only perfect squares ). 
86. There are different numbers related with A, B, C, D, E.such 
that, AB*CD=EEE. E*CDAB= CC. Find AB*D. 
Ans: BE. 
87. Find the total no of 10 digits whose sum is 4. 
Ans: -- 
88.Four musician problem (refer GRE BARRONS). 
Ans: -- 
89.GRE BARRONS problem --> Problem number 25 to 28 page no. 
4. 
Ans: -- 
90. A, B, C are 3 girls and there are 770 Apples. For every 4 Apples, 
A takes, B takes 3. For ever 6 Apples, C takes 7 Apples?  
Ans: 261:145:303. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
(91) T, U, V are 3 friends digging groups in fields. If T & U can 
complete i groove in 4 days &, U & V can complete 1 groove in 3 
days & V & T can complete in 2 days. Find how many days each 
takes to complete 1 groove individually.  
Ans: 24 days. 
(92) 4 mathematician has x apples. If he arranges them in rows of 3 
one will be left. The same is the case with 5,7,9 apples. But when he 
arranged them in rows of 11, non will be left. Find the no. of apples. 
Ans: 946. (Hint: 11*6 11*11 11*16 11*21 =2E......11*76 =3D946). 
(93) H starts running after T reaches 1/5th they must when H reach 
1/6th, if H wants win at what speed H should be run? Note: One 
circle is there, you show this type of problem. 
Ans: -- 
 (94) There are 4 mothers, 4 daughters and the colour of their 
dresses, and they are aged 1, 2, 3 & 4. Details of the dresses are 
given & then it asked about the remaining dresses. 
Ans: -- 
 (95) There are 5 levels of dolls and each of different colors & 
condition are given. Note: This type of problem also refer. 
Ans: -- 
 (96) 5 student A, B, C, D, E. One student knows 5 languages. Like 
that up to one language. Conditions:- 
1. Spanish is most popular language. 
2. 3 persons knows Portuguese. 
3. B & C normally speak English, but when D gathered, they switched to 
Spanish because that is only common between the three. 
4. Only language common between A, B, E is French. 
5. Only language common between C & E is Italian. 
Ans: -- 
97. An escalator is descending at constant speed. A walks down and 
takes 50 steps to reach the bottom. B runs down and takes 90 steps 
in the same time as A takes 10 steps. How many steps are visible 
when the escalator is not operating.  
ANS. 150. 
98. Every day a cyclist meets a train at a particular crossing. The 
road is straight before the crossing and both are traveling in the 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
same direction. Cyclist travels with a speed of 10 Kmph. One day 
the cyclist comes late by 25 min. and meets the train 5km before 
the crossing. What is the speed of the train. 
Ans. 60 Kmph. 
99. Five persons muckerjee, misra, iyer, Patil and Sharma, all take 
then first or middle names in the full names. There are 4 persons 
having first or middle name of Kumar, 3 persons with Mohan, 2 
persons with dev and 1 anil.- Either mukherjee and Patil have a 
first or middle name of dev or misra and iyer have their first or 
middle name of dev. -- Of mukherkjee and misre, either both of 
them have a first or middle name of Mohan or neither have a first 
or middle name of Mohan.-- Either iyer of Sharma has a first or 
middle name of Kumar but not both. Who has the first or middle 
name of anil? 
Ans. Today is Mukherjee. 
101. Two turns have certain peculiar characteristics. One of them 
always lies on Monday, Wednesday, Friday. The other always lies 
on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. On the other days they tell 
the truth. You are given a conversation. Person A -- Today is 
Sunday and my name is anil. Person B -- Today is Tuesday and my 
name is Bill. What is today? 
Ans. Today is Tuesday. 
(102) Which of the following statements can be deduced from the 
information presented? 
(i) If it is Sunday, the twins will both say so. 
(ii) If it is not Sunday, one twin will give the correct day and the other will lie 
about everything. 
(iii) On any given day, only one twin will give his correct name. 
(a) I only. 
(b) I and ii only. 
(c) I and iii only. 
(d) ii and iii only. 
(e) i, ii and iii. 
Ans: -- 
 (103) If the twins are heard saying the following on the same day, 
which choice presents a correct statement? 
Twin A : "It is Sunday Today". 
Twin B : "Yesterday was Sunday". 
Twin A : "it is summer season now". 
(a) It is a summer Sunday. 
(b) It is a summer Monday. 
(c) It is Monday but not summer. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
(d) It is Sunday but not summer. 
(e) It is impossible to determine whether it is Sunday or Monday. 
Ans: -- 
104. Logical reasoning tactics practice puzzle poetry. 
(1) Henny, Axie, Amie are friends. Conditions:- 
(a) Herry or Axies is the oldest. 
(b) If Axie is the oldest, Amie is the youngest. Who is the youngest & who is 
the oldest? 
Ans: Amie is the youngest, Axie is oldest. 
105. There is a robbery and four persons are suspected out of them 
one is actual thief, these are the sentences said by each one of 
them! 
A says D had done B says A had done C says I didn't done D B lied when he 
said that i am thief Out of these only one man is true remaining are false 
Ans.  C is thief, D is true! 
106. How many four digit numbers divisible by four can be formed 
using 1, 2, 3, 4; repetitions are not allowed!  
Ans. 6  
107. A vender sells two things at same cost 12 RS with one item at 
25%profit and other at 20%loss,by this transaction he made profit 
or loss by how much?  
Ans. loss,60paise 
108. Conversation between two employees is as follows:- 
EMPLOYEE-1: Hello! Now your experience is twice the my experience. 
EMPLOYEE-2: Exactly two times. 
EMPLOYEE-1: But at the last meet, you said that your experience is thrice of 
my experience. 
EMPLOYEE-2: That is when we met at 2 years back, your experience is thrice 
that of yours. 
What is the experience of two employees with the company? 
Ans: EMPLOYEE-1: 4 years EMPLOYEE-2: 8 years. 
109. there are four persons A,B,C,D and for languages English 
,french, german, italian. conditions 
1 only one language is spoken by more than two men 
2 A don't know English 
3 a man can speak either French or German but not both 
4 all man cannot speck in a group (no common language) 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
5 A can mediate when B and C want to speak with each other 
6 each men can speak two languages 
Ans. 
A French Italian 
B English French 
C German Italian 
D German Italian 
110. There are 3 women ,they having three jewels, named diamond 
emerald, ruby 3 women A,B,C 3 thief's D,E,F each they had taken 
one jewel from each of the women following conditions one who 
had taken diamond is the bachelor and most dangerous D 's 
brother in law E who is less dangerous than the thief who had 
stolen emerald (this is the key from this e had stolen ruby) D didn’t 
stolen from B one more condition is there 
Ans: -- 
111. there were three suspects for a robbery that happened in a 
bank, Tommy, joy and Bruce Each of them were saying that I 
haven't done anything and the other two has done it. police found 
that Tommy was lying .who is the thief. 3M (MARKS). 
Ans: -- 
112. Joe started from Bombay towards Pune and her friend Julie in 
opposite direction. they meet at a point .distance traveled by Joe 
was 1.8 miles more than that of Julie. after spending some both 
started there way. Joe reaches in 2 hours while Julie in 3.5 hours. 
Assuming both were traveling with constant speed.What is the 
distance between the two cities. 
Ans: -- 
113. there were five hunters A,B,C,D,E and five animals A,B,C,D,E. 
Hunter having the same name with the animal didn't kill it. Each 
hunter has missed some animal. A animal was hunt by the hunter 
whose name matches with animal hunt by hunter B. C animal was 
hunt by the hunter whose name matches with animal hunt by 
hunter D. E has hunt C and missed D .find out animals hunted by 
A,B,C. 6m. 
Ans: -- 
114. A boy picks up the phone and asks "Who are you?". The voice 
from the other side answers "I am your mother's mother-in-law". 
What is the relation of the boy with the fellow speaking at the other 
end. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Ans: -- 
115. Imagine a rectangle. Its length = 2*width. A square of 1 inch is 
cut on all corners so that the remaining portion forms a box when 
folded. The volume of the box is _____ cubic inches. Find the 
original dimensions of the box. 
Ans: -- 
116. 2 persons are doing part time job in a company say A and B. 
The company is open for all the 7 days of the week. 'A' works every 
second day. 'B' works every 3rd day. If 'A' works on first June and 
'B' works on second June. Find out the date on which both 'A' and 
'B' will work together. 
Ans: -- 
117. Consider a pile of Diamonds on a table. A thief enters and 
steals 1/2 of the e total quaint and then again 2 extra from the 
remaining. After some time a second thief enters and steals 1/2 of 
the remaining+2. Then 3rd thief enters and steals 1/2 of the 
remaining+2. Then 4th thief enters and steals 1/2 of the 
remaining+2. When the 5th one enters he finds 1 diamond on the 
table. Find out the total no. of diamonds originally on the table 
before the 1st thief entered. 
Ans: -- 
118. Imagine 4 persons A,B,C,D. (It is a strength determining 
game). A found it hard, but could pull 'C' and 'D' to his side. AC and 
BD pairs on opposite sides found themselves equally balanced. 
When A and B exchanged their positions to form pairs AD and BC, 
BC pair could win and pull AD to their side. Order the 4 persons in 
Ascending order according to their strengths.  
Ans: -- 
119. Consider a beauty contest. 3 persons participate. Their names 
are Attractive, Delectable, Fascinating. They are from 3 tribes 
Pukkas, Wottas, Summas. Pukkas - Always speak truth. Wottas - 
Always speak lies. Summas - Speak truth and lies alternatively. 
Each of the 3 persons make 2 statements. The person who speaks 
truth is the least beautiful. From the statements they give and the 
character of the 3 tribal types, find out which person belongs to 
which tribe. Also find out the persons in the Ascending order of 
their beauty. 
Ans: -- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
120. There are 5 positions-Clerk, Buyer, Cashier, Manager, 
Floorwalker. There are 5 persons- Mrs. Allen, Mrs. Clark, Twain, 
Ewing, Barnett. Conditions: 
1. Clerk and cashier lunch time 11.30.to12.30. 
2. Others 12.30 to 1.30. 
3. Mrs. Allen and Barnett play during lunch time. 
4. Clerk and cashier share Bachelor rooms. 
5. Ewing and Twain are not in good terms because one day when Twain 
retuned early from lunch he saw Ewing already sitting for lunch and reported 
about him to the manager. Find out which person holds which post. 
Ans: -- 
121. There are 8 courses to be handled by faculty in 2 semesters. 4 
in 1st semester and 4 in 2nd semester. The candidates hired for the 
post are k, l, m, n, o. The courses are Malvino, Shakespeare, Joyce, 
Chaucer........... Some conditions will be given like,1. L and N 
handle Shakespeare and Malvino. 2. M and O handle Malvino and 
Joyce. 
Ans: -- 
122. A family I know has several children. Each boy in this family 
has as many sisters as brothers but each girl has twice as many 
brothers as sisters. How many brothers and sisters are there? 
Ans: 4 boys and 3 girls. 
123. No. of animals is 11 more than the no. of birds. If the no. of 
birds were the no. of animals and no. of animals were the no. of 
birds( i.e., interchanging nos of animals and birds.), the total no. of 
legs get reduced by one fifth (1/5). How many no. of birds and 
animals were there? 
Ans: birds:11,animals:22 
124. In a soap company a soap is manufactured with 11 parts. For 
making one soap you will get 1 part as scrap. At the end of the day u 
have 251 such scraps. From that how many soaps can be 
manufactured?  
Ans: 22 + 2+ 1 = 25. 
125. 2 * * | 
3 * * | No. 7 does not occur in this---------------- | 
5 * * | multiplication. 
* 4 * | 
* * 3 | Find the product. 
---------------- | 
* * * * * | 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
------------- | 
-------------------------------------------------- 
Ans: 2 8 1 
3 2 2 
----- 
5 6 2 
5 6 2 0 
8 4 3 0 0 
--------- 
9 0 4 8 2 
--------- 
126. There is a 5digit no. 3 pairs of sum is eleven each. Last digit is 
3 times the first one. 3 rd digit is 3 less than the second. 4 the digit 
is 4 more than the second one. Find the digit. 
Ans: 25296. 
127. There are five thieves, each loot a bakery one after the other 
such that the first one takes 1/2 of the total no. of the breads plus 
1/2 of a bread. Similarly 2nd, 3rd,4th and 5fth also did the same. 
After the fifth one no. of breads remained are 3. Initially how many 
breads were there? 
Ans: 31. 
128.There are some chicken in a poultry. They are fed with corn 
One sack of corn will come for 9 days. The farmer decides to sell 
some chicken and wanted to hold 12 chicken with him. He cuts the 
feed by 10% and sack of corn comes for 30 days. So initially how 
many chicken are there? 
Ans: -- 
129.Two people X & Y walk on the wall of a go down in opposite 
direction. They meet at a point on one side and then go ahead. X 
after walking for some time, walks in opposite direction for 15 
mtrs. Then again he turns back and walks in the original direction. 
What distance did Y walk before they met again, if X walks 11 
meters by the time Y walks 8 meters. 
130. Problem from SAKUNTALA DEVI 'PUZZLES TO PUZZLE U'. 
Problem no: 23( Walking back to happiness.) 
Ans: -- 
131. Find a five digit number subject to following conditions:- 
a. It contains 2 prime no digits. 
b. 3rd digit is the largest. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
c. 1st digit = (3 rd digit - 1). 
c. Sum of 4th digit and 5th digit is less than 1st digit. 
d. Value of the 5th digit lies between the value of 1st digit and 2nd digit, 5th 
digit is one half of the 4th digit. 
Ans: 71842 
132. 1, 2 , 3, 4 digits are available. How many number of 4 digited 
numbers which are divisible by 4. (There should be no repetition of 
digits in the numbers) can be formed? 
Ans: 6 numbers. 
133. A hill of 440 yards is there. Two competitors JACK and JILL go 
up the hill, first JACK reaches the topmost and immediately starts 
back and meet JILL 20 yards from the topmost point. Finally JACK 
reaches the starting point 0.5 minutes earlier than JILL. Speed 
while coming down is 1.5 times the speed of going up. Find the time 
taken by JACK for whole journey (880 yards)? 
Ans: 6.3 minutes. 
134. A merchant in the last day sells 2 lamps for Rs.12 price. He 
finds that he has got 25 % gain on one and 20% lost on the other. 
Did he loose or gain overall? If so how much? 
Ans: 60 paise Loss. 
135. 4 persons are there called JOHN, JACOB, PETER, and 
WILLIAMS. 4 languages are there named ENGLISH, ITALIAN, 
GERMAN, FRENCH. Conditions:- 
a. There is no common language for all. 
b. Except one language, no language is spoken by more than two. 
c. One can know either German or FRENCH but not both. 
d. John can't speak ENGLISH But John can act as interpreter between JACOB 
and PITER. Jacob knows GERMAN but he can talk with WILLIAM who 
doesn't know a word of GERMAN. 
e. No common language between JOHN, PITER, and WILLIAMS. Which two 
languages does each person speaks? 
Hint: ITALIAN IS SPOKEN BY THREE PERSONS (This hint is given in 
Question paper) 
136. 5 couples are there. MEN: L, M, N, O, P. WOMEN: S, T, U, V, 
W.10 seats are in one row. Odd numbered seats are reserved for 
MEN only Like that many conditions are there. This problem is 
from GRE-BARONS BOOK. 
Ans: -- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
137. I participated in a race.1/5th of those who are before me are 
equal to 5/6th of those behind me. What were the total number of 
contestants in the race? 
Ans: -- 
138. Find the 3 digit number. Third digit is square root of first digit. 
Second digit is sum of first and third digits. Find the number. 
Ans: -- 
139. This problem is of time and work type. Some A and some B are 
able to produce so many tors in so many hours. (for example 10 A 
and 20 B are able to produce 30 tors per hour). Like this one more 
sentence was given. We have to find out the rate of working of A 
and B in tors/hour. 
140. A and B play a game of dice between them. The dice consists of 
colors on their faces instead of numbers. A wins if both dice show 
same color. B wins if both dice show different colors. One dice 
consists of 1 red and 5 blue. What must be the color in the faces of 
other dice. (i.e. how many blue and how many red?). 
Ans: Chances of winning for A and B are even. 
141. A girl has 55 marbles. She arranges them in n rows. The nth 
row consists of n marbles, the (n-1)the row consists of (n-1) 
marbles and so on. What are the number of marbles in nth row? 
Ans: -- 
142. This question is of analogy type. Some sentences regarding 
tastes of people to poetry are given like all who like A's Poem, like 
the poems of B. Like this 7 or 8 sentences were given. Questions 
were based on this. 
Ans: -- 
143. This question is also of analogy type. Four persons are there 
A,B,C,D. Each of the four persons own either P,Q,R,S. 10 sentences 
using if clause were given. We have to find out which belongs to 
whom. 
Ans: -- 
 (144) Every station in N railroad issues every other station's ticket. 
Some stations are added. Now they have to issue 46 more tickets. 
Give the No. of stations after and before added. 
Ans: -- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
 (145) There was a race between 3 people. Me, Doug and Anne. 
When I take 21 steps the distance covered is equal to Doug's 24 
steps and Anne's 28 steps. I take 6 steps to every 7 steps of Doug 
and 8 steps of Anne. Who won the race? 
Ans: -- 
 (146) How many bearers will an explorer need for a 6 day march if 
each man can carry the food stuff of one man for 4 days. 
Ans: -- 
 (147) Consider the following statements: 
Albert: Dave did it. 
Dave: Tony did it. 
Gug: I did not do it. 
Tony: Dave lied when he said that I did it. 
(a) If only one out of all above statements is true, who did it? 
(b) If only one out of all above statements is false, who did it? 
Ans: -- 
 (148) A contribution of Rs. 500 was raised from 500 people. The 
fee was as follows: Men: Rs.3.00 each Women: Rs. 2.00 each 
Children: 0.48 each If number of women is more than number of 
men, how many children are there? 
Ans: -- 
 (149) Alice and Liu had some berries. The total of Alice's berries 
and square of number of berries with Liu is 62. The total of Liu's 
berries and square of number of berries with Alice is 176. How 
many berries does each of them have? 
Ans: -- 
 (150) A rope ladder was left down from a ship. 12 steps of the 
ladder were exposed at 10:00 am. The queen who was going to visit 
the ship, said she would visit at 1:00 pm as she would have to climb 
lesser number of steps then. The tide in the sea increases from 
morning to afternoon at the rate of 1.2 meters per hour. The 
distance between any 2 steps of the ladder is 0.4 mts. How many 
steps will the queen have to climb? 
Ans: -- 
 (151) 5 hunters Doe, Deer, Hare, Boar and Row kill 5 animals. Each 
hunter kills an animal that does not correspond to his name. Also 
each hunter misses a different animal which again does not 
correspond to his name. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
(a) The Deer is killed by the hunter, known by the name of the animal killed by 
Boar. 
(b) Doe is killed by the hunter, known by name of animal missed by Hare. 
(c) The Deer was disappointed to kill only a Hare and missed the Roe. 
Ans: -- 
 (152) A local forecast service has accuracy of 2/3 says No rain , and 
Meteorological service having accuracy of 4/3 says Rain. if 
Preference is as no rain what is the chance of rain? 
Ans: -- 
 (153)  
(a) 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 5 6 4 7 3 8 2 _ _ 
(b) 2 4 16 512 _  Write the next elements in the series. 
Ans: -- 
 (154) A Man is sitting in the last coach of train could not find a 
seat, so he starts walking to the front coach ,he walks for 5 min and 
reaches front coach. Not finding a seat he walks back to last coach 
and when he reaches there, train had completed 5 miles. What is 
the speed of the train. 
Ans: -- 
 (155) The Old car of Mary requires tyres to be changed after each 
24000 km. If she wants to go for 42000 km journey then how many 
minimum number of tyres she will need. 
Ans: -- 
 (156) A coin is so unbalanced that it may come both heads in 2 
tosses as it may come tails in a single toss. What is the probability 
of getting a head in a single toss. 
Ans: -- 
 (157) A pen, pencil and eraser together cost $1.00. if 2E<N , if 
N>2P, and 3P>4E then what a single pen will cost? 
Ans: -- 
 (158) A local forecast service has accuracy of 2/3 says No rain , and 
Meteorological service having accuracy of 4/3 says Rain. if 
Preference is as no rain what is the chance of rain? 
Ans: -- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
 (159) Sherlock Holmes thwarted the plan to kidnap Mrs. marry 
when they were questioned Mercy and his two associated shipy and 
rany. when they were telling the story one of them told one thing 
wrong and other true, the other told both true, and the last told 
both false. examining the following tell the roles played by each 
Mercy::  
(1) I wrote the ransomed note 
(2) shipy broke into the window rainy  
(1) shipy wrote the ransomed note 
(2) mercy ran away with the lady shipy  
(1) I broke into the window 
(2)rany wrote the ran some note. 
Ans: -- 
 (160) Tom asked Kim did you like the stamps? She said yes ,me 
and rob too liked them. Kim again said that rob got 3 more than he 
would have got, if i would have kept 2 more than, what he got. Tom 
asked how many u gave Rob? She replied 2 more than what I got. 
Tell, how many stamps each rob and Kim got? 
Ans: -- 
 (161) The Virgo club members used to meet every week to play 
cards. Each time they used to seat around a round table and for 
their memory they used all the possible combinations of positions 
each for a single time only. Can you tell for how many times they 
met? Essays Asked If you are given a chance to change a thing in 
you hometown, what would you change? Give examples why you 
want to do so. Television is creating a communication gap among 
young generation. 
Ans: -- 
162. A person needs 6 steps to cover a distance of one slab. If he 
increases his foot length (step length) by 3 inches he needs only 5 
steps to cover the slabs length. What is the length of the each slab. 
Ans: 31 inches. 
163. There are 19 red balls and one black ball. Ten balls are put in 
one jar and the remaining 10 are put in another jar. What is the 
possibility that the black is in the right jar. 
Ans: 1/2. 
164. There is one lily in the pond on 1st June. There are two in the 
pond on 2nd June . There are four on 3rd June and so on. The pond 
is full with lilies by the end of the June. 
 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
(i) On which date the pond is half full? 
Ans: 29th. --the June has 30 days). 
(ii) If we start with 2 lilies on 1st June when will be the pond be full 
with lilies. 
Ans: 29th June. 
165. A lorry starts from Bangalore to Mysore at 6.00 AM, 7.00 AM, 
8.00 am.....10 pm. Similarly one another starts from Mysore to 
Bangalore at 6.00 am,7.00 am, 8.00 am.....10.00pm. A lorry takes 
9 hours to travel from Bangalore to Mysore and vice versa.  
(i) A lorry which has started at 6.00 am will cross how many 
lorries.  
Ans: 10. 
 
(ii) A lorry which had started at 6.00pm will cross how many 
lorries. Ans: 14. 
166. A person meets a train at a railway station coming daily at a 
particular time . One day he is late by 25 minutes, and he meets the 
train 5 Kim. before the station. If his speed is 12 Kmph, what is the 
speed of the train. 
Ans: 60 Kmph. Refer--Shakuntala Devi Book. 
167. A thief steals half the total no of loaves of bread plus 1/2 loaf 
from a bakery. A second thief steals half the reaming no of loaves 
plus 1/2 loaf and so on. After the 5th thief has stolen there are no 
more loaves left in the bakery. What was the total no of loaves did 
the bakery have at the beginning. 
Ans: 31. 
168. A gardener plants 100 meters towards east, next 100 meters 
towards north, next 100 meters towards west. 98 meters towards 
east, 96 meters towards north and 96 meters towards west, 94 
meters towards south. and 94 meters towards east and so on. If a 
person walks between the trees what is the total distance traveled 
by him before he reaches the center. 
Ans: |---------------| | | | | | | | --------|- | ---------------------| -. 
169. There are four women and 3 men. They play bridge one night. 
Find widow among them. Rules: 
(i) wife and husband are never partners. 
(ii) Wife and husband never play more than one game. One night 
they played four games as 
follows:- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
1. ------ + ------ vs. ------- + --------- 
2. ------ + ------ vs. ------- + --------- 
3. ------ + --*--- vs. ------- + --------- 
4. ---*-- + ------ vs. ------- + --------- 
the woman are marked * above. 
Ans: Refer Problem 21. Mind Teasers by Summers. 
170. From a vessel, 1/3rd of the liquid evaporates on the first day. 
On the second day 3/4th of the remaining liquid evaporates. What 
fraction of the volume is present at the end of the second day. 
Ans: 50%.  
171. There is a 4 inch cube painted on all sides. This is cut down into 
of 1 inch cubes. What is the no of cubes which have no pointed 
sides? 
Ans: 8. 
172. Sam and Mala have a conversation. Sam says I am certainly 
not over 40. Mala says I am 38 and you are at least 5 years older 
than me. Now, Sam says you are at least 39. All the statements by 
the two are false. How old are they really? 
Ans: Mala = 38 yrs; Sam = 41 yrs. 
173. Ram Singh goes to his office in the city, every day from his 
suburban house. His driver Gangaram drops him at the railway 
station in the morning and picks him up in the evening. Every 
evening Ram Singh reaches the station at 5 O' Clock. Gangaram 
also reaches at the same time. One day Ram Singh started early 
from his office and came to the station at 4 O' Clock. Not wanting to 
wait for the car he starts walking home. Mangaram starts at 
normal time, picks him up on the way and takes him back house, 
half an hour early. How much time did Ram Singh walk? 
174. In a railway station, there are two trains going. One in the 
harbor line and one in the main line, each having a frequency of 10 
minutes. The main line service starts at 5 o'clock and the harbor 
line starts at 5.02A.M. A man goes to the station every day to catch 
the first train that comes. What is the probability of the man 
catching the first train? 
Ans: 0.8. 
175. A family X went for a vacation. Unfortunately it rained for 13 
days when they were there. But whenever it rained in the 
mornings, they had clear afternoons and vice versa. In all they 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
enjoyed 11 mornings and 12 afternoons. How many days did they 
stay there totally? 
Ans: 18. 
176. Albert and Fernandez have two leg swimming race. Both start 
from opposite ends of the pool. On the first leg, the boys pass each 
other at 18 m from the deep end of the pool. During the second leg 
they pass at 10 m from the shallow end of the pool. Both go at 
constant speed but one of them is faster. Each boy rests for 4 
seconds at the end of the first leg. What is the length of the pool? 
Ans: -- 
177. Each alphabet stands for one digit in the following 
multiplication. 
T H I S 
x I S 
--------- 
X F X X 
X X U X 
------------ 
X X N X X 
------------ What is the maximum value T can take? 
Ans: -- 
178. If 1/4 of the time from midnight plus 1/2 of the time from now 
to midnight is the present time, then What is the present time? 2. 
In a 10 digit number, if the 1st digit number is the number of 
ones,2nd digit number is the number of twos, and ... so on. 10th 
digit is the number of zeroes, then find the number. 
Ans: -- 
179. A train blows a siren one hour after starting from the station. 
After that it travels at 3/5th of its speed it reaches the next station 2 
hours behind schedule. If it had a problem 50 miles farther from 
the previous case, it would have reached 40 minutes sooner. Find 
the distance between the two stations. 
Ans: -- 
180. An army 50 miles long marches at a constant rate. A courier 
standing at the rear moves forward and delivers the message to the 
first person and then turns back and reaches the rear of the army 
as the army completes 50 miles. Find the distance traveled by the 
courier. 
Ans: -- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
181. Olympic race : 4 contestants : Alan, Charlie, Darren ,Brain. 
There are two races and average is taken to decide the winner. One 
person comes at the same position in both the race. Charlie always 
come before Darren. Brian comes first once. Alan comes third at 
least once. Find the positions. Alan never comes last. Charlie & 
Darren comes 2nd at least once. 
Ans: -- 
 (182) There are 6561 number of balls in a bag. Out of which one is 
heavy ball. In how many minimum number of weighing you can 
find the heavy ball. 
Ans: 8. 
(183) The profit made by a company in one year is enough to give 
6% return on all shares. But as the proffered shares get on return 
of 7.5%, so the ordinary shares got on return of 5%. If the value of 
preferred shares is Rs 4,000000, then what is the value of ordinary 
shares? 
Ans: Rs. 6,000000. 
(184) There were 50 players playing a game among themselves. 
Each player is out of the game when lose 3 matches. What is the 
number of matches should be played in order to get the winner. 
Ans: -- 
 (185) A & B two places. C & D are two people. C started from A and 
D started from B. When they meet each other in the way C traveled 
18 m more than D. Then C takes 13 and half a minute and D takes 
24 minutes to reach the other end. What was the distance between 
A & B. 
Ans: 126. 
(186) I have been hearing a girl singing a song for last two score. 
Song: If seven times five and three times seven is added to my age it 
would be as far above six nines and four as the difference between 
twice of my age and a score. Given-A score is 20 yrs. 
Ans: -- 
 (187) A tourist wants to go from A to B. There are four ways to do 
this:- 
1. To take a wagon. The wagon stops for half an hour at a station in 
between a & b and then goes to b. 
2. To walk to B. If he leaves A at the same time the wagon leaves, he 
will be between by the wagon by 1 mile to reach B. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
3. To walk from A at the same time the wagon leaves from A. He 
will arrive at the mid station at the time when the wagon is 
prepared to leave. He can take the wagon from there. This will take 
shortest time. 
4. To go on unto the mid station & to walk from there. He will reach 
at B 15 minutes before the wagon. What is the distance between A & 
B? 
Ans: -- 
 (188) In a train there is one brakeman, conductor, engineer & 
fireman. Their names are Art, John, Tom & Pete given in this order 
or in reverse order. You have to tell the occupation of the four, 
w.r.t. these conditions:- 
1. Brakeman has no relatives. 
2. John is older than art. 
3. Engineer & fireman are brothers. 
4. John is Pete's nephew. 
5. Fireman is not conductor's uncle. 
6. Conductor is not engineer's uncle. 
Ans: Pete & Tom are brothers. Tom--Father and John is his son. 
Art--Brakeman. 
John--Conductor. 
Tom--Engineer. 
Pete--Fireman. 
(189) There is a 18 strong building and 4 people live in it. They are 
dentist, lawyer, accountant, architect. Dentist floor is 5 times the 
lawyer's floor. Account is below dentist. If architect moves two 
floors up he will be midway between dentist and account. If 
architect moves to midway of the building (9th floor) then he will 
be middle of dentist & lawyer. Ground floor can be ignored i.e. 
floor 0. 
Ans: Dentist 15. Accountant 13. Architect 12. Lawyer 3. 
(190) 4 ladies, Mrs. Margaret, Mrs. Price, Mrs. Winter & Mrs. Ellen 
went for marketing. Each went for 2 shops only. Their surnames 
are lorret, torrey, dories and Marshall. One went to a hardwires 
shop. Two went to bank. Two went to bluchers. All but dories went 
to grocery etc. Who went where? 
Ans: -- 
 (191). A software engineer starts from home at 3 pm for evening 
walk. He walks at a speed of 4 Kmph on level ground and then at a 
speed of 3 Kmph on the uphill and then down the hill at a speed of 
6 Kmph to the level ground and then at a speed of 4 Kmph to the 
home at 9 pm. What is the distance on one way? 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Ans: -- 
 (192). A bag contains certain number of files. Each file is 
numbered with one digit of 0 to 9. Suppose the person want to get 
the number between 1 to 2000 (or 7000 check ). How many 
minimum number of files should be present in the bag. 
Ans: -- 
 (193). a + b + c +d = d + e + f + g = g + h + i =17. If a = 4, what are 
the values of d and g. Each letter taken only one of the digit from 1 
to 9. 
Ans: a = 4 ,b = 2, c =6, d = 5, e = 3, f = 8, g = 1, h = 7, i = 9. 
194. A frog jumps 3 ft comes back 2ft in a day. In how many day it 
will come out of 30ft deep well? 
Ans: 28 day. 
195. A-B=C D/E=F G+H=I C.F=I 
Ans: A=9, B=5, C=4, F=2. 
196. When the actual time pass 1 hr, wall clock is 10 min behind it. 
When 1 hr is shown by wall clock, table clock shows 10 min ahead 
of 1 hr. When table clock shows 1 hr, the alarm clock goes 5 min 
behind it. When alarm clock goes 1 hr, wrist watch is 5 min ahead 
of it. Assuming that all clocks are correct with actual time at 12 
noon, what will be time shown by wrist watch after 6 hr? 
Ans: 5:47:32.5 (n X 60 )50/60 X 70/60 X 55/60 X 65/60. 
197. A software engineer just returned from US, has eaten too 
much fat & put a lot of weight. Every Sunday he starts walking 4 
km/hr on level ground, then up at 3 km\hr, then back down hill at 
6km\hr, then again on level ground at 4km\hr till he reaches his 
destination. If he returned home at 9 p.m., what distance did he 
covered? 
Ans: 24 km. 
198. Answer the questions from facts:- The members of certain 
tribe are divided into 3 casts abhor, dravid &  magar. 
1. An abhor woman can't marry dravid man. 
2. A magar woman can't marry a dravid man. 
3. A son takes the caste of his father and a daughter takes caste of her mother. 
5. All marriages except those mentioned, are not permitted. 
6. There are no children born out of a wedlock. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
199. There are 2 scales of temp A & B. It was given A varies from 14 
to 133 and B varies from 36 to 87. Find the temperature, when 
temperature of A is equal to temp of B. 
Ans: 52.5. Let t=mx+c, c=-70 => m=51/119 a=a.51/119 -70 => a=52.5. 
201. There are 4 married couples, out of which, 3 people in a group 
is needed. But there should not be his or her spouse in the group. 
How many groups are possible? 
Ans: 32. 
202. In the 4 digits 1,2,3,4, how many 4 digested numbers are 
possible which are divisible by 4? Repetitions are allowed. 
Ans: 64. 
203. Two men are going along a track of rail in the opposite 
direction. One goods train crossed the first person in 20 sec. After 
10 min the train crossed the other person who is coming in 
opposite direction in 18 sec. After the train has passed, when the 
two persons will meet? 
Ans: Approx. 72 min, check it once. 
204. The no. of children, adults. The no. of adults the no. of boys. 
The no. of boys no. of girls. The no. of girls no. of family. 
Conditions:- 
1. No family is without a child. 
2. Every girl has at least one brother and sister. 
Ans: c > a > b > g > f; 9 6 5 4 3. 
205. There are 4 boys - Anand, Anandya, Madan and Murali with 
nic-names perich, zomie, drummy and madeena not in the same 
order. Some conditions. 
Ans: Anand : Perich Anandya : Drummy Madan : Zombie Murali : Madeena 
206. There are 2 diamonds, 1 spade and 1 club and 1 ace and also 1 
king, 1 jack and 1 ace are arranged in a straight line. 
1. The king is at third place. 
2. The left of jack is a heart and its right is king. 
3. No two red colours are in consecutive. 
4. The queens are separated by two cards. Write the order of which suits 
(hearts ,clubs) and names (jacks queens etc.) are arranged? 
Ans: -- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
207. Write each statement as true or false. 8 Marks 
1. The sum of the first three statements and the second false statement gives 
the true statement. 
2. The no. of true statements > No. of false statements. 
3. The sum of second true statement and first false statement gives the first 
true statement. 
4. There are atmost 3 false statements. 
5. There are no two consecutive true statements. 
Ans: -- 
208. There are 3 piles each contains 10, 15, & 20 stones. There are 
A, B, C, D, F, G and H persons. One man can catch upto four stones 
from any pile. The last man who takes will win. If first A starts next 
B and so on, who will win? 
Ans: May be F. 
209. In a certain department store the position of Buyer, Cashier, 
Clerk, Floorwalker & Manager are held, though not necessarily 
respectively, by Evans, Ames, Conroy, Davis amp; Buyer. The 
cashier & the manager were roommates in college. The Buyer is 
bachelor, Evans & Miss Ames have only business contacts with 
each other. Mrs. Conroy was greatly disappointed when her 
husband told her that the manager had refused to give him a raise. 
Davis is going to be the best man when the clerk & the cashier are 
married. What position does each person held? 
Ans: -- 
210. In a four team foot-ball tournament, all the teams played each 
Other in three rounds of matches as shown in the Table - A. Some 
of The results of the tournament are shown in the Table - B. Using 
the Clues given below, please fill in the blank columns in the result 
Table - B (Goals for & Goals Against?). Note : Two points for win, 
one point for draw & zero points for defeat are awarded. Clues : 
1. East zone won the tournament despite scoring one less goal than the 
runners-up. 
2. North zone scored an odd number of goals in their first round Game. 
3. South zone, who failed to score in their final match, were beaten by a two-
goal margin in the first round. 
4. East zone lost their match against west zone. 
5. All four teams scored goals in the second round matches. 
6. West zone scored the same number of goals against east zone as North zone 
scored against them. 
Ans: -- 
211. East zone scored four goals in round two match.</LI< OL> 
Table - A (Matches Played) 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Round 1 
North zone vs. South zone 
West zone vs. east zone. 
Round 2 
South zone vs. West zone 
East zone vs. North zone 
Round 3 
South zone vs. East zone 
West zone vs. North zone. 
Table - B (Results) 
Played Won Draw Lost Goals For Goals Against Points 
East Zone 3 - - - ? 3 4 
North Zone 3 - - - ? ? 4 
West Zone 3 - - - 4 3 3 
South Zone 3 - - - 2 5 1 
Ans: -- 
212. In certain community, there are thousand married couples. 
Two thirds of the husbands who are taller than their wives are also 
heavier and three quarters of the husbands who are heavier than 
their wives are also taller. If there are 120 wives who are taller and 
heavier than their husbands, how many husbands are taller and 
heavier than their wives? 
Ans: -- 
213. Both the Guptas and Sinhas have two young sons, whose ages 
are under Eleven. The names of the boys, whose ages rounded off 
to the nearest year are all different, are Rajesh, Praveen, Lalith and 
Prathap. Taking the ages of the boys only to the nearest year, the 
following statements are true:-Rajesh is three years younger than 
his brother is. Praveen is the oldest. Prathap is 5 years older than 
the younger Sinha's boy. Lalith is half as old as one of the Guptha's 
boys. The total ages of the boys in each family differ by the same 
amount today as they did five years ago. 
Ans: -- 
214. A long Division Problem:- 
xx)xxxxxxxxx(xxxxxxx 
xx 
------ 
xxx 
xx 
------ 
xxx 
xx 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
------- 
xx 
xx 
------- 
xxx 
xxx 
------- 
------- 
In the complete solution, there are four 5's. Find the missing digits. 
Ans: -- 
215. Following services are operated by Asian airlines between the 
two are located in different countries with different time zones. As 
it is normally done, the time shown is the local time - viz IST & TST. 
Regular Flight Supersonic Flight Arrive Alexandria 17:10 TST 15:40 
TST Depart Alexandria 20:50 TST 22:50 TST Arrived Rampur 
23:40 IST Is the arrival time of supersonic flight into Rampur from 
Alexandria same as the Arrival time of the Regular flight, assuming 
each Service - Regular and Supersonic maintains its own constant 
speed of flight. 
Ans: -- 
 (216) A, B, C, D, E related. Four of them made these statements 
each:- 
(i) C is my son-in-law's brother. 
(ii) B is my father's brother. 
(iii) E is my mother-in-law. 
(iv) A is my brother's wife. Who made these statements? 
Ans: -- 
 (217) A ship is away from the shore by 180 miles. A plane is 
travelling at 10 times speed of the ship. How long from the shore 
will they meet? (218) A clock showing 6 o'clock takes 30 secs. to 
strike 6 times. How long will it take to strike 12 at midnight? 
Ans: 66 seconds. 
(219) Only boys aged > 16 wear coats. Boys aged > 15 go to watch 
football. Some more statements are given. What can be said about 
those who are watching football? 
(220) There are 3 societies A, B amp; C having some tractors each. 
A Gives B and C as many tractors as they already have. After some 
days B gives A and C as many tractors as they have. After some days 
C gives A and B as many tractors as they have. Finally each has 24 
tractors. What is the original No. of tractors each had in the 
beginning? 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Ans: A - 39. B - 21. C - 12. 
221. BE * BE = ACB. A, B, C, E are non zero numbers. Find B, E. 
Ans: B=1 E=9. 
222. A, B, C, D, E are having numerical values. There are some 
conditions given:- 
(a) A=C <===> B!=E 
(b) Difference between A and C as same as difference between C and B as 
same as difference between A and D. 
(c) C < A and C > D, Then Find A, B, C, D, E. 
Ans: -- 
223. There are six cards, in which, it has two king cards. All cards 
are turned down and two cards are opened. 
(a) What is the possibility to get at least one king? 
(b) What is the possibility to get two kings? 
224. A person went to a shop and asked for change for 1.15 paisa, 
but he said that he could not only give change for one rupee but 
also for 50p, 25p, 10p and 5p. What were the coins he had? 
Ans: 1-->50p 4--->10p 1--->25p. 
225. There are 3 nurses and they work altogether only once in a 
week. No nurse is called to work for 3 consecutive days. Nurse 1 is 
off on Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday. Nurse 2 is off on Saturday. 
Nurse 3 is off on Thursday, Sunday. No two nurses are off more 
than once a week. Find the day on which all the 3 nurses were on 
work. 
Ans: -- 
226. There are 5 persons A, B, C, D, E and each is wearing a block 
or white cap on his head. A person can see the caps of the 
remaining 4 but can't see his own cap. A person wearing white says 
true and who wears black says false. 
(i) A says I see 3 whites and 1 black. 
(ii) B says I see 4 blacks. 
(iii) E says I see 4 whites. 
(iv) C says I see 3 blacks and 1 white. Now Find the caps wear by A, B, C, D 
and E. 
Ans: -- 
227. There are two women, Kavitha and Shamili and two males 
Shyam and Aravind, who are musicians. Out of these four one is a 
Pianist, one Flutist, Violinist and Drummer. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
(i) Across Aravind beats Pianist. 
(ii) Across Shyam is not a Flutist. 
(iii) Kavitha's left is a Pianist. 
(iv) Shamili's left is not a Drummer. 
(v) Flutist and Drummer are married. 
Ans: -- 
228. 1/3 rd of the contents of a container evaporated on the 1st day. 
3/4 the of the remaining contents of the container evaporated the 
second day. What part of the contents of the container are left at 
the end of the second day? 
229. A man covered 28 steps in 30 seconds but he decided to move 
fast and covered 34 steps in 18 seconds. How many steps are there 
on the escalator when stationary? 
Ans: -- 
230. What is the maximum number of slices can you obtain by 
cutting a cake with only 4 cuts? 
Ans: 16. 
231. Three are three boxes. In first box, two white balls. In second 
box, 2 black balls. In third box, 1 white & 1 black ball. The labels on 
the boxes are not correct. Then you have to open one box and to 
find the colour of the balls in all boxes. 
Ans: Open the box labeled black & white. If white balls are there then the box 
labeled with white balls contain black balls and labeled with black balls 
contain one black and one white ball and vice versa, if two black balls are 
there. 
232. There is a 4 inch cube painted on all sides. This is cut into 
number of 1 inch cubes. What is the number of cubes which have 
no painted sides? 
Ans: -- 
233. Sam and Mala have a conversation. Sam says I am certainly 
not over 40. Mala says I am 38 and you are at least 5 years older 
than me. Now Sam says you are at least 39. All the statements by 
the two are false. How old are they really? 
Ans: -- 
234. Ram singh goes to his office in the city every day from his 
suburban house. His driver Mangaram drops him at the railway 
station in the morning and picks him up in the evening. Every 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
evening Ram Singh reaches the station at 5 o'clock. Mangaram also 
reaches at the same time. One day Ram singh started early from his 
office and came to the station at 4 o'clock. Not wanting to wait for 
the car he starts walking home. Mangaram starts at normal time, 
picks him up on the way and takes him back house, half an hour 
early. How much time did Ram Singh walked? 
Ans: -- 
235. Some people went for vacation. Unfortunately it rained for 13 
days when they were there. But whenever it rained in the morning, 
they had clean afternoon and vice versa. In all they enjoyed 11 
morning and 12 afternoons. How many days did they stay there 
totally? 
Ans: -- 
236. Geoffrey, Hellmann and Molly attend and interview and give 
three different statements each. To make it a little complex. Out of 
the three statements made by each one, one is false. Geoffrey says: 
I am 22 - false Hellmann is elder than me by one year. Molly is 25 
Hallmann says: I am not the youngest - Geoffrey is 2 years younger 
than me Molly is younger than me by one year - false Molly says: 
Geoffrey is 23 I am a year younger than Geoffrey (I don't remember 
this statement but it is false.) 
Answer: Geoffrey is 22 as Goof states, And Goof== 23 as Molly states. Both 
cannot be true. Either one has to be true or either one has to be false. Start 
deriving from this point and u get, Geoffrey Hellmann Molly Age: 23 25 22 
237. There is a cube, which has to be inscribed with the following 
pair of numbers on opposite sides.1 and 6, 2 and 4,3 and 5. How 
many different ways can it be done? 
Ans: -- 
238. There's an electric wire running 1 km from the side of a 
building. The number of poles in between them is placed in an 
interval of distance between each other. If one pole is removed 
then the distance between each pole becomes 1 2/3 meters. Find 
out how many poles were kept. 
Ans: -- 
239. The time taken to travel in train from Town A to Town B is 5 
hours. There are trains starting from both towns at an interval of 1 
hour. How many trains meet in 1 trip? 
Ans : 10 trains check it as trains come from both sides every hour. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
240. Shadow went to an Isle where the natives lie and the visitors 
speak truth. Shadow saw a salesman and wanted to know whether 
he was a native or a visitor. He did not pose a question directly but 
asked him indirect instead. Shadow saw a woman and asked the 
salesman,"Is that a NATIVE or VISITOR?" .For which the salesman 
replied," She is a visitor". Is the salesman a Native or a Visitor? 
Ans : Since Shadow himself saw him/her as a woman and asked the 
salesman.The Salesman replied ,"SHE " by which he speaks truth and is a 
Visitor. Salesman is a Visitor. 
241. Three friends divided some bullets equally. After all of them 
shot 4 bullets the total number of bullets remaining is equal to the 
bullets each had after division. Find the original number divided. 
Ans: 18 (2 marks) Initially . x x x Now x-4 x-4 x-4 Equation is 3x-12 = x 
242. There are 3 societies A, B, C. A lent cars to B and C as many as 
they had already. After some time B gave as many tractors to A and 
C as many as they have. After sometime c did the same thing. At the 
end of this transaction each one of them had 24. Find the cars each 
originally had. 
Ans: A had 39 cars, B had 21 cars & C had 12 cars 
243. The Bulls, Pacers, Lakers and Jazz ran for a contest. Anup, 
Sujit, John made the following statements regarding results. Anup 
said either Bulls or Jazz will definitely win Sujit said he is confident 
that Bulls will not win John said he is confident that neither Jazz 
nor Lakers will win When the result cameit was found that only 
one of the above three had made a correct statement. Who has 
made the correct statement and who has won the contest. 
Ans: Sujith; Lakers 
244. Five people A ,B ,C ,D ,E are related to each other. Four of 
them make one true statement each as follows.  
(i) B is my father's brother. 
(ii) E is my mother-in-law. 
(iii) C is my son-in-law's brother 
(iv) A is my brother's wife. 
Ans: (i) D (ii) B (iii) E (iv) C 
245. Some statements are given below: L says all of my other four 
friends have money M says that P said that exactly one among them 
has money N says that L said that precisely two among them have 
money O says that M said that three of the others have money P, L 
and N said that they have money All the above statement are false.. 
Who has money & who doesn't have any money? 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Ans: -- 
246. Fifty minutes ago if it was four times as many minutes past 
three o’clock, how many minutes is it to six o'clock? 
Ans: Twenty six minutes. 
247. A hotel has 10 storeys.Which floor is above the floor below the 
floor, below the floor above the floor, below the floor above the 
fifth. 
Ans: The sixth floor. 
248. Seven members sat around a table for three days for a 
conference. The member's names were Abhishek, Amol, Ankur, 
Anurag,Bhuwan ,Vasu and Vikram. The meetings were chaired by 
Vikram. On the first evening members sat around the table 
alphabetically. On the following two nights, Vikram arranged the 
seating so that he could have Abhishek as near to him as possible 
and absent minded Vasu as far away as he could. On no evening did 
any person have sitting next to him a person who had previously 
been his neighbor. How did Vikram manage to seat everybody to 
the best advantage on the second and third evenings? 
Ans: Second evening:Vikram,Ankur,Abhishek,Amol,Vasu,Anurag and 
Bhuwan. Third evening :Vikram,Anurag,Abhishek,Vasu,Bhuwan,Ankur,Amol. 
249. Two trains start from stations A and B spaced 50 kms apart at 
the same time and speed. As the trains start, a bird flies from one 
train towards the other and on reaching the second train, it flies 
back to the first train. This is repeated till the trains collide. If the 
speed of the trains is 25 km/h and that of the bird is 100km/h. How 
much did the bird travel till the collision. 
Ans: 100 kms. 
250. Four prisoners escape from a prison. The prisoners, Mr. East, 
Mr. West, Mr. South, Mr. North head towards different directions 
after escaping. The following information of their escape was 
supplied: The escape routes were The North Road, South Road, 
East Road and West Road. None of the prisoners took the road 
which was their namesake. Mr. East did not take the South Road 
Mr. West did not the South Road. The West Road was not taken by 
Mr. East What road did each of the prisoners take to make their 
escape? 
Ans: Mr. East took the North Road Mr. West took the East Road Mr. North 
took the South Road Mr. South took the West Road 
251. Complete the series: 5, 20, 24, 6, 2, 8, ? 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Ans: 12 (as 5*4=20, 20+4=24, 24/4=6, 6-4=2, 2*4=8, 8+4=12). 
(252) A soldier looses his way in a thick jungle. At random he walks 
from his camp but mathematically in an interesting fashion. First 
he walks one mile East then half mile to North. Then 1/4 mile to 
West, then 1/8 mile to South and so on making a loop. Finally how 
far he is from his camp and in which direction. 
Ans: Distance traveled in north and south directions 1/2 - 1/8 + 1/32 - 1/128 
+ 1/512 - and so on = 1/2/((1-(-1/4)) Similarly in east and west directions 1- 
1/4 + 1/16 - 1/64 + 1/256 - and so on = 1/(( 1- ( - 1/4)) Add both the answers 
(253) How can 1000000000 be written as a product of two factors 
neither of them containing zeros 
Ans: 2 power 9 x 5 power 9 
(254) Conversation between two mathematicians: First : I have 
three children. The product of their ages is 36. If you sum their 
ages, it is exactly same as my neighbor’s door number on my left. 
The second mathematician verifies the door number and says that 
it is not sufficient. Then the first says " Ok one more clue is that my 
youngest is really the youngest". Immediately the second 
mathematician answers . Can you answer the question asked by the 
first mathematician? What are the children ages?  
Ans 1,6 and 6 
(255) Light glows for every 13 seconds . How many times did it glow 
between 1:57:58 and 3:20:47 am. 
Ans : 383 + 1 = 384 
(256) 500 men are arranged in an array of 10 rows and 50 columns 
according to their heights. Tallest among each row of all are asked 
to fall out. And the shortest among them is A. Similarly after 
resuming that to their original positions that the shortest among 
each column are asked to fall out. And the tallest among them is B . 
Now who is taller among A and B ? 
Ans : A 
(257) A person with some money spends1/3 for cloths, 1/5 of the 
remaining for food and 1/4 of the remaining for travel. He is left 
with Rs 100/- . How much did he have with him in the beginning ? 
Ans: Rs 250/- 
(258) There are six boxes containing 5 , 7 , 14 , 16 , 18 , 29 balls of 
either red or blue in colour. Some boxes contain only red balls and 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
others contain only blue. One sales man sold one box out of them 
and then he says " I have the same number of red balls left out as 
that of blue ". Which box is the one he solds out ? 
Ans: Total no of balls = 89 and (89-29 /2) = 60/2 = 30 and also 14 + 16 = 5 + 
7 + 18 = 30 
(260) Grass in lawn grows equally thick and in a uniform rate. It 
takes 24 days for 70 cows and 60 days for 30 cows to eat the whole 
of the grass. How many cows are needed to eat the grass in 96 
days.? 
Ans : 20 g - grass at the beginning r - rate at which grass grows, per day y - 
rate at which one cow eats grass, per day n - no of cows to eat the grass in 96 
days g+ 24*r = 70 * 24 * y 
g + 60*r = 30 * 60 * y 
g + 96*r = n * 96 * y 
Solving, n = 20. 
(261) There r some bees in a garden..1/5th of them went to a 
particular flower,1/3rd went to another flower,3 times the 
difference of the above two went to third flower..n one was 
remaining n it was roaming around..how many bees were there? (3 
marks) 
Ans:15 
(262) There was a community in which there were 1000 couples. In 
that2/3rd of men who r taller r also heavier n 3/4th of the men who 
r heavier r also taller n there were 120 women who were both 
heavier n taller than men. So how many men r both taller n heavier 
than men? 
(263) A man drives with constant speed..n he after some time he 
sees a milestone with 2-digits..then he travels for an hr n sees the 
same 2 digits in reverse order..n then after an hr he sees that the 
milestone has the same 2 digits with a 0 between them..so what’s 
the man speed? 
Ans:45km/hr 
(264)There were 2 systems A n B.14 degrees in A is equivalent to 36 
in system B.and 133 in A is equivalent to 87 in B.now what is the 
temperature where they both r equal? 
Ans:51.25 (conversion A=(7/3)B-70) 
(265) X Y Z X Y Z 
A B + A B - 
------------ ------------- 
C D E F B G A find X,Y,Z,G 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
(266)A women buys some shoestrips n then 4 times of that she 
buys packet pins n then 8 times of shoestrips she buys 
handkerchiefs..n she has a bill of Rs3.24..n she pays for each article 
as many paise as there r articles(of that particular item).Now 
what’s the number of handkerchiefs? 
Ans:16 
(267)Ms. Anitha got her salary n she spent half of it in shopping n 
gave 1RS to a beggar. After that 1/2 of the remaining money she 
spends in a hotel n she gives Rs.2/- as a tip to waiter. n then 1/2 of 
the remaining she spends again n she gives 3 RS as charity.. n after 
that finally she is left with Rs 1/- when she comes out. Whats the 
actual money she had? 
Ans. Rs 42/- (3 marks) 
268. A person is cycling in a circular track. At some point he 
notices that 1/5 of people in front of him and 5/6 of people together 
constitute the total no. of cyclists. Find the total no. of cyclists. 
Ans:31 
269.Trains leave from New York to Washington every hour on the 
hour(1:00,2:00....).Trains leave from Washington to New York 
every hour on the hour and half hour(1:00,1:30,2:0,2:30....).It 
takes a train 5 hrs to complete its journey from Washington to New 
York as well as from new York to Washington. A train leaves from 
new York to Washington. Find out how many trains it will meet 
before it reaches Washington. 
Ans:19 or 21(not sure). 
(270) A pen, pencil and eraser together cost $1.00. if 2E<N , if 
N>2P, and P>4E then what a single pen will cost? 
271. In a class there are less than 500 students . when it is divided 
by 3 it gives a whole number. similarly when it is divided by 4,5 or 7 
gives a whole number. find the no. of students in the class. 
Ans: 420 
272. Uncle Reuben and aunt Cynthia came to town to shop Reuben 
bought a suit and hat for $15 Cynthia paid as much as for her hat as 
Reuben did for his suit then she spent the rest of their money for a 
new dress on the way home Cynthia called Reuben's attention to 
the fact that his hat cost $1 more than her dress then she added if 
we had divided our hat money differently so that we bought 
different hats mine costing 1 and 1/2 time cost if yours then we each 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
would have spent the same amount of money in that case said uncle 
Reuben "how much would my hat have cost" 
Ans : Uncles hat costs $6.4 (total money was $29) 
273. Four family names are given and their friends name are given 
but not in order.( u have to find which friend belongs to which 
family) Each friend prepares salad using 3 different fruits . they are 
given apple, cherry, grape, banana., no two ferns uses the same 
combination. Various conditions are given and 4 quest asked. 
Which fruit did Mandy didn't use? Who is flares friend? Name the 
fruits common between Erica and Stacy? 
274. Here is a simple mathematical puzzle set by Longfellow in his 
own flowery, poetical language. If 1/5th of a hive of bees flew to the 
badamba flower, 1/3rd flew to the slandbara, 3 times the difference 
of these two numbers flew to an arbour, ad one bee continued to fly 
about, attracted on each side by the fragrant ketaki and malati, 
what was the total number of bees? 
Ans: 15 
275. (don't remember the exact question)a man while sorting files 
picks up file number one, misses one, picks up file no. 2,mises two 
files, and so on...after that he found that he picked up 5% of the 
files. How many files were there? 
Ans:39 
276. A man walks at 4 km/hr on plain, then at 3 km/hr uphill and 
then returns through the same road at 6 km/hr downhill and at 4 
km/hr on the plain. It takes altogether 6 hours. So what distance he 
covered in one way? 
Ans: 12 km Solution: Let plain road = x km And hill road = y km ? x/4 + y/3 + 
y/6 + x/4 = 6 ? x/2 + y/2 = 6 ? x + y =12 
277. There are some men and some lodges for which the following 
conditions hold true – 
(i) Each lodge is represented by exactly 3 men . 
(ii) Each man is associated with exactly 2 lodges. 
(iii) Any pair of lodge has only one man in common. 
How many men and how many lodges were there? 
Ans: 6 men and 4 lodges. Solution: 
(i) L1 is represented by M1, M2, M3. L2 is represented by M3, M4, M5. L3 is 
represented by M1, M4, M6. L4 is represented by M2, M5, M6. 
(ii) M1 is associated with L1,L3. M2 is associated with L1,L4. M3 is associated 
with L1,L2. M4 is associated with L2,L3. M5 is associated with L2,L4. M6 is 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
associated with L3,L4. 
(iii) Common between L1 and L2 is only M3. Common between L1 and L3 is 
only M1. Common between L1 and L4 is only M2. Common between L2 and 
L3 is only M4. Common between L2 and L4 is only M5. Common between L3 
and L4 is only M6. i.e. all the given conditions are satisfied. 
278. A person sells 2 items for Rs. 12 each. For one he profits 25% 
and for the other he losses 20%. Altogether did he loss or gain? And 
by how much? 
Ans: He losses by 60 paise. Solution: Cost price of the item for which he 
losses = Rs. 12*100/80 = Rs. 15. Cost price of the item for which he Gains = 
Rs. 12*100/125 = Rs 9.6. ? Total cost price is Rs. 24.6 and total sell price is Rs. 
24. So altogether he losses by Rs. 0.6. 
279. My father’s age was x in the year x². I am obviously talking 
about 20th century. In which year was my father born? 
Ans: In the year 1892. Solution: x = 44 as 44² = 1936 and the square of any 
other integer will not fall in between 1900 and 2000. i.e. my father was 44 in 
the year 1936. ? my father was born in the year 1892. 
280.A man was going by cycle. After going 2/3rd of total distance 
the cycle broke down and he had to complete the journey on foot. 
At the end he found that he walked twice as long as he was on cycle. 
How many times the speed of the cycle is as the speed of walking? 
Ans: 4 times. Solution: Let the distance be z km, speed of cycle be x km/hr 
and walking speed be y km/hr. Then he covered 2z/3 km by cycle in 2z/3x hr 
and covered z/3 km on foot in z/3y hr. ? according to the question 2*2z/3x = 
z/3y ? x/y = 4. 
281. In a badminton tournament a team is eliminated from the 
tournament if it losses 2 games. If there are 51 teams then what is 
the maximum number of games required to select the champion? 
Ans: 101 Solution: To eliminate the 50 teams 50*2 = 100 games are required. 
And the champion team may lose in at most 1 game. ? Max. no. of games 
required = 101. 
282. There are 3 tribes in a Island. Sororean who always speak 
truth, Nororean who always speak false and Midorean who speak 
truth and false alternately in either order. From the statements 
given by A,B and C (who belong to 3 different tribes), three persons 
from the island, identify who belongs to which tribe. 
A : C is Sororean. 
B is Midorean. 
B : A is Nororean. 
C is Midorean. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
C : A is Midorean. 
I am Sororean. 
Ans: 
A B C 
Midorean Nororean Sororean 
Solution: Think logically. 
283. There are 5 persons A,B,C,D,E . All of them have different 
occupations and none of them are of same age. There professions 
are Consultant, Planner, Engineer, Nutritionist and Technician 
definitely not in the same order. From the following conditions 
determine whose profession is what? 
(i) The consultant is the oldest among them. 
(ii) The Technician is not younger than the Planner and the Planner is not 
younger than the Nutritionist. 
(iii) D is not as old as A and also not as young as B, who is not as old as the 
Engineer and also not as young as C. 
(iv) C is not the youngest among them. 
Ans: Names are given in descending order of their ages. Consultant Engineer 
Technician Planner Nutritionist A D B C E Solution: Think logically. 
284. 4 persons, Watts, Roger, O'Neil and Smith, were eating in a 
restaurant while Smith was killed by poisoning. During 
investigation the other 3 persons gave the following statements. 
They gave one false statement each.  
Watts :  
(i) I didn’t do it. 
(ii) O'Neil sat beside me. 
(iii) We had our usual waiter. 
Roger :  
(i) Smith was across the table from me. 
(ii) We had a new waiter. 
(iii) The waiter didn’t do it.  
O'Neil :  
(i) Roger didn’t do it. 
(ii) The waiter has poisoned Smith. 
(iii) Watts lied when he said that we had our usual waiter. One among these 
three persons and the waiter murdered Smith. Who is the murderer? 
Ans : O'Neil is the murderer. 
Solution: Think logically. I have given the false statements in red and italics. 
285. There is a 4 inch cube painted on all sides. This is cut down 
into of 1 inch cubes. What is the no of cubes which have no pointed 
sides. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Ans: 8 [(n-2)*(n-2)*(n-2)] where n is side length of the cube 
286. Find the values of each of the alphabets. 
N O O N 
S O O N 
+ M O O N 
J U N E 
Ans: 9326 
287. If a clock takes 7seconds to strike 7, how long will the same 
clock take to strike 10? 
Ans: The clock strikes for the first time at the start and takes 7 seconds for 6 
intervals-thus for one interval time taken=7/6. Therefore, for 10 seconds there 
are 9 intervals and time taken is 9*7/6=10 and 1/2 seconds. 
288. Fifty minutes ago if it was four times as many minutes past 
three o'clock, how many minutes is it to six o'clock? 
Ans: Twenty six minutes. 
289. Everyday in his business a merchant had to weigh amounts 
from 1 kg to 121kgs, to the nearest kg. What are the minimum 
number of weight required and how heavy should they be? 
Ans: .The minimum number is 5 and they should weigh 1,3,9,27 and 81kgs. 
290. Ram, Shyam and Gumnaam are friends. Ram is a widower 
and lives alone and his sister takes care of him. Shyam is a bachelor 
and his niece cooks his food and looks after his house. Gumnaam is 
married to Gita and lives in large house in the same town. Gita 
gives the idea that all of them could stay together in the house and 
share monthly expenses equally. During their first month of living 
together, each person contributed Rs.25. At the end of the month, it 
was found that Rs 92 was the expense so the remaining amount 
was distributed equally among everyone. The distribution was such 
that everyone received a whole number of Rupees. How much did 
each person receive? 
Ans. Rs 2 (Hint: Ram's sister, Shyam's niece and Gumnaam's wife are the 
same person) 
291. Sam and Mala have a conversation. 
• Sam says I am certainly not over 40 
• Mala says I am 38 and you are at least 5 years older than me 
• Now Sam says you are at least 39 All the statements by the two are 
false. How old are they really? 
Ans: Mala = 38 yrs, Sam = 41 yrs. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
292. Grass in lawn grows equally thick and in a uniform rate. It 
takes 24 days for 70 cows and 60 days for 30 cows to eat the whole 
of the grass. How many cows are needed to eat the grass in 96 
days.? 
Ans : 20 [Hint: g - grass at the beginning r -rate at which grass grows, per day 
y - rate at which one cow eats grass, per day n - no of cows to eat the grass in 
96 days g + 24*r = 70 * 24* y g + 60*r= 30 * 60 * y g + 96*r = n * 96* y, 
Solving, n = 20. ] 
293. Three criminals were arrested for shop lifting. However, when 
interrogated only one told the truth in both his statements, while 
the other two each told one true statement and one lie. The 
statements were: 
• ALBERT :(a) Chandler passed the merchandise. (b) Bruce created the 
diversion. 
• BRUCE :(a) Albert passed the merchandise. (b) I created the diversion. 
• CLIVE :(a) I took the goods out of the shop. (b) Bruce passed them over. 
Ans: Albert passed the goods. Bruce created the diversion. Clive took the 
goods out of the shop. 
294. There N stations on a railroad. After adding X stations on the 
rail route 46 additional tickets have to be printed. Find N and X. 
Ans. x=2 and N=11 ( Let initially, N(N-1) = t; After adding, (N+X)(N+X-1) = 
t+46;Trail and error method ) 
295. Complete the Table given below: Three football teams are 
there. Given below is the group table. Fill in the x's Played Won 
Lost Draw Goals For Goals Against 
A 2 2 x x x 1 
B 2 x x 1 2 4 
C 2 x x x 3 7 
Ans: The filled table is given below Played Won Lost Draw Goals For Goals 
Against 
A 2 2 0 0 7 1 
B 2 0 1 1 2 4 
C 2 0 1 1 3 7 
297. Four prisoners escape from a prison. The prisoners, Mr. East, 
Mr. West, Mr. South, Mr. North head towards different directions 
after escaping. The following information of their escape was 
supplied: 
• The escape routes were The North Road, South Road, East Road 
and West Road. 
• None of the prisoners took the road which was their name sake. 
• Mr. East did not take the South Road 
• Mr. West did not the South Road. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
• The West Road was not taken by Mr. East What road did each of 
the prisoners take to make their escape? 
Ans: Mr. East took the North Road Mr. West took the East Road Mr. North 
took the South Road Mr. South took the West Road. 
298. A hotel has two wings, the east wing and the west wing. Some 
east wing rooms but not all have an ocean view. All west wing 
rooms have a harbor view. The charge for all rooms is identical, 
except as follows: 
• Extra charge for all harbor view rooms on or above the 3rd floor 
• Extra charge for all ocean view rooms except those without 
balcony 
• Extra charge for some harbor rooms on the first two floor & some 
east wing rooms without ocean view but having kitchen facilities. 
Which of the following cannot be determined on the basis of the 
information given: 
I. Whether there are any rooms without a balcony for which an extra charge is 
imposed. 
II. Whether any room without a kitchen or a view involves an extra charge. 
III. Whether two extra charges are imposed for any room. 
(A) I only               (B) II only 
(C) III only             (D) II and III only 
(E) I, II and III 
Ans: (A) 
299. A ship went on a voyage. After it had traveled 180 miles a 
plane started with 10 times the speed of the ship. Find the distance 
when they meet from starting point. 
Ans: 200miles. ( Distance traveled by plane = 1/10 distance traveled by ship + 
180 ) 
301. Father's age is three years more than three times the son's age. 
After three years, father's age will be ten years more than twice the 
son's age. What is the father's present age? 
Ans: 33 years. 
302. Light glows for every 13 seconds . How many times did it glow 
between 1:57:58 and 3:20:47 am. 
Ans : 383 + 1 = 384 
303. There are 20 poles with a constant distance between each 
pole. A car takes 24 second to reach the 12th pole. How much will it 
take to reach the last pole. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Ans: 41.45 seconds (Let the distance between two poles = x, Hence 
11x:24::19x:? ) 
304. A man collects cigarette stubs and makes one full cigarette 
with every 8 stubs. If he gets 64 stubs how many full cigarettes can 
he smoke.  
Ans: 8+1=9 
305. The minute and the hour hand of a watch meet every 65 
minutes. How much does the watch lose or gain time and by how 
much? 
Ans: Gains; 5/11 minutes 
306. A survey was taken among 100 people to find their preference 
of watching T. V. programs. There are 3 channels. Given the no of 
people who watch 
• at least channel 1 
• at least channel 2 
• at least channel 3 
• no channels at all 
• at least channels 1and 3 
• at least channels 1 and 2 
• at least channels 2 and 3 Find the no of people who watched all 
three. 
Ans: -- 
307. Some statements are given below: 
• L says all of my other four friends have money 
• M says that P said that exactly one among them has money 
• N says that L said that precisely two among them have money 
• O says that M said that three of the others have money 
• P, L and N said that they have money All the above statement are 
false. Who has money & who doesn't have any money? 
Ans: -- 
308. 500 men are arranged in an array of 10 rows and 50 columns 
according to their heights. Tallest among each row of all are asked 
to fall out. And the shortest among them is A. Similarly after 
resuming that to their original positions that the shortest among 
each column are asked to fall out. And the tallest among them is B. 
Now who is taller among A and B ? 
Ans. A 
309. Mr. Mathur's jewels have been stolen from his bank locker. 
The bank has lockers of 12 people which are arranged in an array of 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
3 rows and 4 columns like: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 
• The locker belonging to JONES was to the right of BLACK'S locker 
and directly above MILLAR'S. 
• BOOTH'S locker was directly above MILLAR'S. 
• SMITH'S locker was also above Gray's (though not directly). 
• GREEN'S locker was directly below SMITH'S. 
• WILSON'S locker was between that of DAVIS and BOOTH. 
• MILLAR'S locker was on the bottom row directly to the right of 
HERD'S. 
• WHITE'S locker was on the bottom right hand corner in the same 
column as BOOTH'S. Which box belonged to Mr. Mathur’s? 
Ans: Box number 9 belongs to Mr. Mathur. 
310. Problem based on sets. 100 papal. 85 are married, 70 have 
phone, 75 have house, 60 have car. find papal having house, car, 
phone and r married?? easy set problem. I am not sure about 
figures but find total papal who do not have these things and 
subtract from 100 to get pal having all these. 
Ans. 10 
311. village and town. in between a hill. a person travels on cycle 8 
km uphill and 24 downhill to reach town continuously in 2hrs 50 
min. then he comes to village in 4 hrs and 30 min. find his speed 
uphill and downhill. 
Ans:  uphill 6 downhill 16 
312. find wizard's age. his age is 3 times son's age, his father's age is 
40 more than twice his age. total of their ages is 1240. 
ans. 360 
313. there r some steps. I come down 7 steps then see a man at 
bottom. then he comes up and I go down at same speed (my speed). 
when 4 steps r remaining for me I find that man has reached the 
top. for my single step downwards he took 2 steps up. find total 
steps. 
ans. 22 steps. 
(314) One person went to market to purchase three varieties of 
chocolates. He had purchased 20 items with 20 cents. Fudges are 
available at 4 cents each, Chaco bars are available at 4 for a penny 
and gum pints are available at 2 a penny. How many of each item 
he had purchased. 
Ans: -- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
 (315) There is a five digit number, where the third number is one 
higher than the sum of first and second digits. Fourth digit is twice 
of fifth and third digit is twice the fourth. Second digit is five more 
than the first digit. What is the number 
Ans: -- 
 (316) A cube, which is painted red on all its sides, is cut into 27 
cubes with three straight cuts. Now how many cubes have 
(i) No red face 
(ii) One red face 
(iii) Two red faces 
(iv) Three red faces 
Ans: -- 
 (317) It is a typical Tap problem. There are two taps, which are 
used to fill the tank and one tap to empty the tank. First tap fill the 
tank in 10 min., while the second takes quarter of an hour to fill the 
tank if both are operated independently. Third tap is capable of 
emptying the tank in seven and a half minutes. If all the taps are 
opened simultaneously (when the tank is empty) how long (if ever) 
will it take for the tank to get filled completely? 
Ans: -- 
 (318) Ten years before, one is seven years more than the "half the 
age" of other. Now the bride’s age is 30 years. And also one is nine-
tenths the age of other. What is groom’s present age. 
Ans: -- 
 (319) Two guys are tossing coin with a bet of $1 for each game. 
After some tosses., one guy earned $3 while the other won three 
times. How many games do they play. 
Ans: -- 
 (320) There is one 8 marks analytical question. Which is the 
easiest puzzle I had ever seen. There are in total eight members in 
the group. Five members are to be selected from that group. They 
had given three conditions. We have to answer four multiple-
choice questions which are framed based on the above three 
conditions. In almost all the questions, answer can be found out by 
eliminating the answers from the choices. Going thru the GRE 
Barrons analytical section will help. Get the gist of it., rather than 
trying to solve more and more. 
Ans: -- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
 (321) There are four friends, who are speaking about the pizza, 
which one of them ate before. Each one will say one statement and 
we were given that one of them is lying. We have to find out who ate 
the pizza. Easy one.., no need to worry about. this. 
Ans: -- 
 (322) All the above nine puzzles are very easy when compared to 
this one. This is difficult not because of logic but because of its 
grammar. The sentence structure is too complicate. This question 
reminded me of puzzle 127 of sakunthala devi’s Puzzles to Puzzle U. 
Ans: -- 
323. there is a 1 km long wire places on x poles . if the no of poles is 
reduced by 1 then he distance of wire between each poles increases 
1 2/3.how many poles are there initially.\ 
Ans: -- 
324. Clark ,Jones, mason, smith are 4 pal. there are 4 professions 
druggists, grocer, butcher, policeman. find out who is who? 
(1) clark and Jones are neighbors and they drive each other to work. 
(2) jones earns more than mason 
(3) the police man earns more than the druggists and i "think" the grocer. 
(4) the policeman does not have a druggists as a neighbor. 
(5) the butcher walks to work 
(6)policeman does not meet the grocer until he arrests him for committing an 
offence. 
Ans: -- 
325. A and B write a test A says " I got a third of the quiz. wrong" B 
says " I got 5 wrong" together they got three quarters of the 
questions correct. how many did a get correct. (5 m) 
Ans: -- 
326. If a die has 1,6 and 3,4 and 2,5 opposite each other how many 
such dies can be made. 
Ans: -- 
327. There are three boxes , In one box Two white balls , In two box 
2 black balls In three box 1 white &1 black The labels on the boxes 
are not correct. Then you have to open one box and to find the 
colour of the balls in all boxes. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Ans:  Open the box lab led black& white If white balls are there then the box 
lab led with white balls contain black balls and lab led with black balls contain 
one black and one white ball and vice versa if two black balls are there. 
(328). there are containing 5 , 7 , 14 , 16 , 18 , 29 balls of either red 
or blue in colour. Some boxes contain only red balls and others 
contain only blue . One sales man sold one box out of them and 
then he says " I have the same number of red balls left out as that of 
blue ". Which box is the one he sold out ? 
Ans : total no of balls = 89 and (89-29 /2 = 60/2 = 30 and also 14 + 16 = 5 + 7 
+ 18 = 30 
(329). A chain is broken into three pieces of equal lengths 
containing 3 links each. It is taken to a blacksmith to join into a 
single continuous one . How many links are to to be opened to 
make it ?  
Ans : 2. 
(330) when the actual time pass 1hr wall clock is 10 min behind it 
when 1 hr is shown by wall clock, table clock shows 10 min ahead of 
it when table clock shows 1 hr the alarm clock goes 5min behind it, 
when alarm clock goes 1 hr wrist watch is 5 min ahead of it 
assuming that all clocks are correct with actual time at 12 noon 
what will be time shown by wrist watch after 6 hr 
Ans: ---5:47:32.5 (n X 60 )50/60 X 70/60 X 55/60 X 65/60 
331. complete the following a. $ * * $ @ * ? ? # @ @ # # $ ? ? some 
what similar like this...but not clear. b. 1 , 3 , 7 , 13 , 21 , __ , 43 
Ans : 31 c. 1, 3, 9, __ , 16900 
332. A girl took part in a (some) game with many others in a 
circular closed circuit. After pedaling for several minutes, he found 
that 1/3rd of the cyclists ahead of her and 3/4th of the cyclists 
behind him together formed the total no. of participants. How 
many were participating in the race? 
Ans: -- 
333. OF all pets i have, except 2 all are rabbits OF all pets i have, 
except 2 all are fish OF all pets i have, except 2 all are cats How 
many rabbits, fish and cats are there? 
Ans: -- 
334. given carpenter + painter = 1100 painter + electrician = 3200 
electrician + plumber = 5100 plumber + mason = 2200 mason + 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
labour = 3000 labour + painter = 1100 find every person's cash? (i 
don't know the exact amount mentioned above.) 
Ans: -- 
335. out of 30 questions, the three persons A,B & C answered 45 
correct answers, B answered 55% of A, B and C together answered 
25 % more of what A answered. Find how many answers each 
answered? 
Ans: -- 
336. Jim, Bud and Sam were rounded up by the police yesterday. 
because one of them was suspected of having robbed the local 
bank. The three suspects made the following statements under 
intensive questioning. Jim: I'm innocent Bud: I'm innocent Sam: 
Bud is the guilty one. If only one of the statements turned out to be 
true, who robbed the bank? 
(337) There are two containers on a table. A and B . A is half full of 
wine, while B, which is twice A's size, is one quarter full of wine . 
Both containers are filled with water and the contents are poured 
into a third container C. What portion of container C's mixture is 
wine ? 
Ans: -- 
 (338) A wall clock loses 10 minutes every 1 hour. In 1 hour by the 
wall clock , a table clock gets 10 minutes ahead of it. In 1 hour by 
the table clock an alarm clock falls 5 minutes behind it. In 1 hour of 
the alarm clock, a wristwatch gets 5 minutes ahead it. At noon, all 4 
timepieces were set correctly. To the nearest minutes, what time 
will the wrist show when the correct time is 6 p.m. on the same day 
? 
Ans: -- 
 (339) "You see," said Mrs. Murphy, "Paddy is now one and one-
third times as old as he was when he took to drink, and little 
Jimmy, who was forty months old when paddy took to drink is now 
two years more than half as old as I was when Paddy took to drink , 
so when little Jimmy is as old as Paddy was when he took to drink. 
our three ages combined will amount to just one hundred years" 
How old is little Jimmy? 
Ans: -- 
 (340)Both the Allen's and the Smiths have two young sons under 
eleven. The name of the boys whose ages rounded off to the nearest 
year are all different are Arthur, Bert, Carl and David . Taking the 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
ages of the boys only to the nearest year , the following statements 
are true 
* Arthur is three years younger than his brother 
* Bert is the oldest 
* Carl is half as old as one of the Allen boys 
* David is five years older than the younger smith boy 
* the total ages of the boys in each family differ by the same amount today as 
they did five years ago How old is each boy and what is each boys family 
name. 
Ans: -- 
 (341) In a certain organization there are either men eligible to 
serve on a eligible to serve on a newly established committee of 
four. The selection of the members is not an easy matter , however 
for there are jealousies and attachments among the candidates 
which prevents a free choice of four committeemen, if you were the 
president of the organization could you select a committee of four 
satisfying all these whims? 
* Ames will serve with anybody 
* Brown won't serve unless Clayton serves 
* Clayton wont serve with Evans 
* Davis wont serve without Hughes 
* Evans will serve with anybody 
* French wont serve with Davis unless Grant serves too, and wont serve with 
Clayton unless Davis also serves 
* Grant wont serve with both Brown and Clayton and wont serve with either 
Ames or Evens 
* Hughes wont serve unless either Brown or French serves and wont serve 
with Clayton unless Grant serves too and wont serve with both Ames and 
Evans 
Ans: -- 
 (342) An artist has exactly seven paintings --- ,T,U,V,W,X,Y, and Z -
- from which she must choose exactly five to be in an exhibit. Any 
combination is acceptable provided it meets the following 
conditions: 
* If T is chosen , X cannot be chosen 
* If U is chosen , Y must also be chosen 
* If V is chosen , X must also be chosen 
(1) Which one of the following is an acceptable combination of 
paintings for inclusion in the exhibit? 
A. T,U,V,X,Y 
B. T,U,V,Y,Z 
C. T,W,X,Y,Z 
D. U,V,W,Y,Z 
E. U,V,W,Z,Y 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
(2) If painting T is chosen to be among the paintings included into 
he exhibit which one of the following cannot be chosen to be among 
the paintings included in the exhibit? 
A. U 
B. V 
C. W 
D. Y 
E. Z 
(3)Which one of the following substitutions can the artist always 
make without violating restrictions affecting the combination of 
paintings given that the painting mentioned first was not, and the 
painting mentioned first was not, and the painting mentioned 
second was, originally going to be chosen ?A. T replaces V 
B. U replaces Y 
C. V replaces X 
D. W replaces Y 
E. Z replaces W 
(4) If the artist chooses painting V to be included among the 
paintings in the exhibit, which one of the following must be true of 
that combination of paintings? 
A. T is not chosen 
B. Y is not chosen 
C. U is chosen 
D. W is chosen 
E. Z is chosen 
Ans: -- 
 (343) Yesterday my mother asked me to buy some stamps. Stamps 
are available in 2 paise,7paise,10paise,15paise and 20paise 
denominations. For three types of stamps I was asked to buy five of 
each. For the other two types of stamps. I was asked to buy six of 
each. Unfortunately I forgot which I was supposed to buy five of 
and which to buy six of Luckily my mother had given me the exact 
money required to buy the stamps , Rs. 3.00 and the shopkeeper 
was able to give me the correct stamps. Which stamps did I buy? 
Ans: -- 
 (344)Farmer Jones sold a pair of cows for Rs. 210 , On one he 
made a profit of ten percent and on the other he lost ten percent. 
Altogether he made a profit of five percent. How many did each 
cow originally cost him? 
Ans: -- 
345.Meera was playing with her brother using 55 blocks. She gets 
bored playing and starts arranging the blocks such that the no. of 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
blocks in each row is one less than that in the lower row. Find how 
many were there in the bottom most row? 
Ans: -- 
346.Rahul took part in a cycling game with many others in a 
circular closed circuit. After pedaling for several minutes, he found 
that 1/5th of the cyclists ahead of him and 5/6th of the cyclists 
behind him together formed the total no. of participants. How 
many were participating in the race? 
Ans: -- 
347.Tom wants to catch a hare. He is standing 250 yards south 
from the hare. The hare starts moving due east. Tom, instead of 
moving in the northeast direction, moves in such a way that at 
every instant, he is going towards the hare. If speed of tom is one 
and one-third times that of the hare, find the distance each traveled 
before he caught the hare. 
Ans: -- 
348.Two people are playing with a pair of dies. Instead of numbers, 
the dies have different colors on their sides. The first person wins if 
the same color appears on both the dies and the second person 
wins if the colors are different. The odds of their winning are 
equal. If the first dice has 5 red sides and 1 blue side, find the 
color's on the second one. 
Ans: -- 
349.A company's director said during the board meeting: " The 
company's income from roads will be sufficient to pay 6% of the 
entire stock issue, but since we are paying 7.5% interest on the 
preferred stock of Rs.4, 000,000 we are able to pay only 5% of the 
common stock". Find the value of the common stock. 
Ans: -- 
350. Mr. ANY MAN left ANY TOWN by car to attend a wedding at 
ANY CITY. He had been driving for exactly two hours when the car 
got punctured. It took his driver exactly ten minutes to change the 
wheel. In order to play safe they covered the remaining distance at 
a speed of 30 mph. consequently, Mr. ANY MAN was at wedding 
half an hour behind schedule. Had the car got the puncture only 30 
miles later , I would have been only FIFTEEN minutes late he told 
the driver . How Far is ANY CITY from ANYTOWN. 
Ans: 120 miles 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
351. Alpha, Beta , gamma, delta and epsilon are friends and have 
birthdays on consecutive days though may not be in order. Gamma 
is as many days old to Alpha as Beta is younger to Epsilon. Delta is 
two days older then Epsilon. Gamma’s Birthday is on Wednesday. 
Tell whose birthday is when. 
Ans: 
Alpha: Friday 
Beta : Saturday 
Gamma: Wednesday 
Delta: Tuesday 
Epsilon: Thursday 
352.The quarter of the time from midnight to present time added 
to the half of the time from the present to midnight gives the 
present time. What is the present time? 
Ans: 9hrs past 36 minutes AM 
353. A man is going to a wedding party. He travels for 2hrs when he 
gets a puncture. Changing types takes 10mins. The rest of the 
journey he travels at 30 miles/hr. He reaches 30mins behind 
schedule. He thinks to himself that if the puncture had occurred 
30miles later, he would have been only 15mins late. Find the total 
distance traveled by the man 
Ans: -- 
354. After world war II three departments did as follows First 
department gave some tanks to 2nd &3rd departments equal to the 
number they are having. Then 2nd department gave some tanks to 
1st & 3rd departments equal to the number they are having. Then 
3rd department gave some tanks to 2nd &1st departments equal to 
the number they are having. Then each department has 24 tanks. 
Find the initial number of tanks of each department? 
Ans ; A-39 B-21 C-12 
355. A girl 'A' told to her friend about the size and color of a snake 
she has seen in the beach. It is one of the colors brown/black/green 
and one of the sizes 35/45/55.  
If it were not green or if it were not of length 35 it is 55. 
If it were not black or if it were not of length 45 it is 55. 
If it were not black or if it were not of length 35 it is 55. 
(a) What is the color of the snake? 
(b) What is the length of the snake? 
Ans: (a) brown (b) 55 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
356.A man was on his way to a marriage in a car with a constant 
speed. After 2 hours one of the tier is punctured and it took 10 
minutes to replace it. After that they traveled with a speed of 30 
miles/hr and reached the marriage 30 minutes late to the 
scheduled time. The driver told that they would be late by 15 
minutes only if the 10 minutes was not waste. Find the distance 
between the two towns? 
Ans: -- 
357. Three clocks where set to true time. First run with the exact 
time. Second slows one minute/day. Third gains one minute/day. 
After how many days they will show true time. 
Ans: -- 
358. There were some containers of quantity 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 12, 15, 22, 
24, 38 liters. Each was filled with some liquid except one. The 
liquids are milk, water and oil. Quantity of each was like this. 
Water = 2* milk oil = 2* water. Find out which container was empty 
and containers filled with milk and oil. 
Ans: -- 
359. Two travelers, one with 64 barrels of wine, other with 20 
barrels of wine. They don't have enough money to pay duty for the 
same. First traveler pays 40 francs and gives his 5 barrels, Second 
traveler gives his 2 barrels but gets 40 francs in exchange. What's 
value of each barrel, and duty for each barrel? 
Ans: Value of each barrel-120 francs, Duty on each-10 francs 
360. What is Ann's relation with her husband's mother's only 
daughter-in-law's sister's husband? 
Ans: Brother-in-law 
361. Some guy holding a glass of wine in his hand looking around in 
the room says, "This is same as it was four years ago, how old are 
your two kids now?" Other guy says "Three now, Pam had one 
more in the meanwhile." Pam says, "If you multiply their ages, 
answer is 96 and if you add the ages of first two kids, addition is 
same as our house number." The first guy says, "You are very 
smart but that doesn't tell me their ages." Pam says, "It's very 
simple, just think." What are the ages of three kids? 
Ans: 8, 6, 2 
362. A motor cyclist participant of a race says "We drove with the 
speed of 10 miles an hour one way, but while returning because of 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
less traffic we drove on the same route with 15 miles per hour." 
What was their average speed in the whole journey? 
Ans: 12 miles per hour 
363. Given following sequence, find the next term in the series: 
(i) 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 12, 20, 16, ____  
Ans: 12 
(ii) 3, 6, 13, 26, 33, 66, ___  
Ans: 53 
364. Three customers want haircut and a shave. In a saloon, two 
barbers operate at same speed. They take quarter of an hour for 
the haircut and 5 mines for the shave. How quickly can they finish 
the haircut and shave of these three customers? 
Ans: 30 minutes 
365. A shopkeeper likes to arrange and rearrange his collection of 
stamps. He arranges them sometimes in pair, sometimes in bundle 
of three, sometimes in bundle of fours, occasionally in bundle of 
fives and sixes. Every time he's left with one stamp in hand after 
arrangement in bundles. But if he arranges in the bundle of seven, 
he's not left with any stamp. How many stamps does a shopkeeper 
have? 
Ans: 301 
366. Three different types of objects in a bucket. How many times 
does one need to select object from the bucket to get at least 3 
objects of the same type? 
Ans: 7 
(367). A stamp collector has the habit to arrange or rearrange the 
stamps accordingly. while doing this he some times keeps the 
stamps in pairs, or in group of 3 or in 4 or in or in 6 and realizes 
that in any case he is left with 1 stamp and when he arranges them 
in groups of 7 no stamps remain. what is the number of stamps he 
has? 
Ans: -- 
 (368). Amy while walk-in down the street with her daughter, meets 
her husband's mother's only daughter in law's sister's husband. 
how is the related to her? 
Ans: -- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
 (369). there are 3 customers who wants to take a hair cut and 
shave. there are 2 barbers who takes one quarter of an hour for a 
hair cut, and 5 minutes for a shave. both the barbers want to finish 
off and go quickly to their homes. in what time can do it. 
Ans: -- 
 (370). we traveled to a place at the rate of 10 miles per hour and off 
course returned the same way, but owing to less traffic at the rate 
of 15 miles per hour. what was our relative speed. 
Ans: -- 
 (371). there are 3 types of apples in a box. what is the number of 
apples we should take so that we end up with 3 apples of one kind. 
Ans: -- 
 (372). (a).3,6,13,26,33,66,_ (b).0, 1,2,13 ,6,33 ,12, 63,20, 103,_ 
Ans: -- 
 (373). Each alphabet A,B.. Z is a constant. A=1,B=2,C=3^2,D=4^9 
n so on. Each letter is assigned a value -the position of that letter 
raised to the value of preceding alphabet.(C = 3 ^B,D= 4 ^ C n so 
on) Compute the numerical value of (X-A)(X-B)(X-C)....(X-Y)(X-Z). 
Ans: -- 
374. Mr. T has a wrong weighing pan. One arm is lengthier than 
other.1 kilogram on left balances 8 melons on right.1 kilogram on 
right balances 2 melons on left. If all melons are equal in weight, 
what is the weight of a single melon? 
375. In a game of dice, 2 dice thrown at each turn. The score at each 
turn is taken as the product of number on 2 dices. there were five 
turns (rolls) second roll is 1 less than first n (like this ... the 
relationship between third n second, third n fourth, fourth n fifth ) 
were given. Find the score in first roll, second roll, third roll, 
fourth roll. (jus giving an idea about question and don know the 
exact relationships). 
 
PURPLE: these are always poisonous if red are. 
YELLOW: six months in a year they are safe. 
GREEN: always safe to consume if purple are poisonous. 
RED: six months in a year poisonous. The colors are colors of 
mushrooms available. AT this time which one is safe to consume? 
G: I am 22 M = G + 2 H = G - 1 H: I am not the youngest. difference 
between M & H is 3 G is 25. M: M is younger than G. G = 23. H = 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
G+2. Mr.G, Mr.M, Mr.H made only one statement false. Find the 
ages of all three.  
Ans: -- 
376. Matrix problem repeated from prev paper there are 3 males 
A,B,C and 3 females X,Y,W. they played 18 games of golf altogether. 
1. A scored 94 
2. X scored 106 
3. Y scored 102. 
4. Z scored 100. 
5. B and C scored 96 and 98 and don't no who's score what?? 
6. A's wife beats C's wife. 
7. there are two couples whose sum of scores is same. Determine 
who's wife is who and scores of B and C. 
Ans: -- 
377. A girl had several dollars with her. she went out for shopping 
and spent half of them in shopping mall, being generous she had 
given 1 dollar to the beggar. After that she went for lunch and spent 
the half of the remaining and gave 2 dollars as tip to the waiter. 
Then she went to watch a movie and spent the half of remaining 
dollars and gave autorikshaw-wala 3 dollars. This left her with only 
1 dollar. How many dollars did she had with her at the beginning. 
Ans: -- 
378. A person says that his son is 5 times as old as his daughter and 
his wife is 5 times older than his son and he is twice the age of his 
wife . The sum total of all the ages equals the age of the grand 
mother who celebrated her 81st birthday today. How old was his 
son? 
Ans: -- 
379. A bargain hunter bought some plates for $ 1.30 from as ale on 
Saturday, where price 2 was marked off at each article .On Monday 
she went to return them at regular prices, and bought some cups 
and saucers from that much amount of money only. the normal 
price of plate were equal to the price of 'one cup and one saucer'. In 
total she bought 16 items more than previous. saucers were only of 
3 cents hence she brought 10 saucers more than the cups, How 
many cups and saucers she bought and at what price? 
Ans: -- 
380. A jeweler prepared a window display each displaying 3 of the 7 
jams at a time . They were methyst, opal, sapphire, emerald, ruby 
and garnet. Displayed according to the following conditions:- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
1 A should always be displayed on the left window and D on the 
right. 
2 Ruby should never come with any of D or G. 
3.E should always be with S. then some 4 questions were asked on 
this. easy #1 which combination is appropriate? AOS;ADR;AES 
(Ans). 
#2 which condition is correct in the right window? 
#3 Ruby can be displayed with following other two? 
#4 S can be displayed with the following other two on left side window? 
381. Racing competition. Participants were from 3 tribes Sonorant-
always says truth Midorean-alternatively says T and F ,not with any 
particular start. Nororean-always False  
A says- 
1. C obstructed me at the last moment ,which caused me to lose the race. 
2. C always speak true 
3. c is the winner. 
B says -  
1. A is the winner. 
2. c says false always. 
C says-  
1.B won the Race 
2. I didn't caused any obstruction to A at the last time. Identify the tribes of 
each. 
Ans: -- 
382. A boss tells 1/6 the of his life in child hood,1/12 of his in youth 
and 1/7 of his in bachelor, five years after his election a son was 
born whom was died four years ago at half his final age. find the 
boss age. 
. ANS.:74 this solution a/6+a/12+a/7 +5...... 
383. Two thieves went to the museum to stole the diamonds first 
thief stole half of them and while going he took another two and 
left. Second, third and fourth did the same and there was zero 
diamonds at the end. How many diamonds initially at the 
beginning? Similar to Q. No. 193 Stolen Mangoes from Shakuntala 
Devi - More Puzzles  
Ans: 79 
384. A, B, C are the husbands and D, E, F are their wives not in that 
order. They are playing the Golf following these conditions. D, E, F 
and B scores are as follows 106,102,100 and 94.A and C scores are 
98 and 96 not in that order as their names are not displayed. Two 
couples get the same score. B wife beat the A wife list out the wives 
names and the scores they got. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Ans: 
Hus Wife Score Total 
A F 98 102 200 100 198 
B D 94 106 200 106 200 
C E 96 100 96 102 198 
385.A women with dollar bills go to the shopping he spent half of 
the money she had for shopping as she was so kind she gave one 
dollar to the beggar. she went to the hotel and spent half of the 
remaining and she gave 2 dollars to the waiter, the she buy some 
goods with half of the remaining and she gave 3 dollars to the 
receptionist. how much money she had in the beginning? 
ans:42 come in the reverse order 1+3=4and twice of it 8+2=10 and twice of it 
20+1=21 and twice of it 42. 
386.A conductor in the bus ask the man how old the boy is. the man 
replied that my son is five times older than my daughter and my 
wife is five times older than my son and i am twice older to my wife 
and our ages summed up to my grandmother whose age is 81 years. 
can u tell me the son age? 
Ans: 5 years x+5x+25X+50X=81 81X=81 x=1 therefore son age is 5 years old 
387. find out who is oldest and who is youngest from the following 
statements... 
(a) either A or B r the oldest 
(b) either C is the oldest or B is the youngest. 
Ans: A is the oldest and B is the Youngest 
388.one boy tells three papal to guess mule color.. number one says 
its not balk number two says its either brown or grey number 3 
says its brown. ..the boy then says one is at least lying and at least 
telling truth...find mule color ans grey? 
Ans: -- 
389. 2 men take turns walking and riding one horse that they 
share...walking speed 4km/hr..riding speed 12km/hr..one rides for 
some time and ties horse for the other walking fellow and 
continues walking......they keep going on like this alternately ..find 
time that the horse rests 
Ans: -- 
390. 7 ppl have holidays on 7 diff days...and they give conditions 
like A's hold is 3 days before B etc etc...we have to find the days on 
which they take holiday 5.6 subjects 3 ppl teach 2 each...some crazy 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
conditions and we got to find the subject for each. I cant really 
recall clearly so why confuse u guys 
Ans: -- 
391. A Lady (say L) is a philanthropist. she goes to a restaurant, 
orders food and pays half the amount she has and another dollar to 
a waiter as tip. she then goes to a mall, does some purchases and 
pays half the amount left and another 2 dollars to a beggar outside. 
At last she goes to a book store, takes some books and pays half the 
amount left and another 3 dollars to a beggar outside. she then 
checks that she only had a dollar left to her. How much money she 
had initially?  
Ans. 42 $ 
392. Three couples are playing golf together. The men are E, B & T 
while women are M G & H. they play 8 rounds. M, G, H & E score 
106, 102, 100, 94 respectively. while B & T scored either 96 or 98 as 
it was unresolved due to error at scoreboard. When finally resolved 
they found that two of the couples scored same. It is given that- E's 
wife scored greater than B's wife. Who's whose wife & how much 
the men scored each? 
Ans: -- 
393. A lady buys some plates in 130$ with 2$ off every item. she 
then returns the plates for the same amount next day to exchange 
them for some cups & saucers. Each saucer costs only 3$ each and 
the no. of saucers is 10 more than cups. Altogether she takes 16 
more items than before. If she had to buy only cups, how many of 
them she could have been taken home on the first day? 
Ans: -- 
394. Impressed by admiration of the boy by stranger, the father 
said "My son is five times as old as my daughter and my wife is five 
times as old as my son. I'm double the age of my wife and my 
grandmother is as old as the sum of ages of all of us and she is 
celebrating her 81st birthday." what is the age of the boy? 
ANS. 5 yrs 
395. A, B & C participate in a race & one of them wins. They belong 
to three communities-M, N, O. O always speak the truth, N always 
lie and M alternate. Each of A, B & C belongs to one community. 
A SAYS: 
1. I would have won the race if C had not interfered me at the last movement. 
2. C always speaks truth. 
3. C is the winner. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
B SAYS: 
1. A wins the race. 
2. C is not a 'N'. 
C SAYS: 
1. I hadn't interfered with A at the last movement. 
2. B wins the race. Tell, who's who? 
Ans: -- 
396. Harry is a friend of Axy and Amy. Two statements are given 
about them. 
1. if one of Axy and Amy is oldest then another is youngest. 
2. Either Harry is the oldest or Amy is the youngest. Who is the 
oldest? 
ANS. Axy 
397.sons age is 5 times daughters. mother is five times son. father 
is 5 times wife. Total of all age is Grandpas who is celebrating 81st 
B`day. 
Ans:-5 yrs 
(398) One woman buys plates worth 1.30$ at 2cent discount each 
plate. Then she exchanged the plates for saucers & bowl where one 
bowl & one saucers costs equal to one plate. no of saucers which 
costs 3 cent is10 more than bowl. no of saucers & bowl is 16 more 
than no of plates. 
Ans:-10Plates 
399. "One-sixth of my life", said my boss, "I spent as a child, next 
one-twelfth as an old boy, one-seventh & 5 more years in politics & 
socialization. This brought me up to when Jimmy born. Jimmy was 
elected for the governor four years ago, when he was half my 
present age." How old is my boss? 
ANS.: 84 yrs. (However, I overlooked that 'one-seventh' part, & got the 
answer 36 - a wrong answer.) 
******************************************************* 
J= (B/2) + 4 (B/6) + (B/12) + (B/7) + 5 + J = B => B = 84 
******************************************************* 
401.A Couple decided to travel a north country side .so they decide 
to travel a minimum amount on car the first day and the second 
and subsequent day a distance of 20 miles .If they travel a total 
amount of 1080 miles. Find he distance traveled on the 4th day and 
the 9 day. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Ans: -- 
402. A card board of 34 * 14 has to be attached to a wooden box and 
a total of 35 pins are to be used on the each side of the card box. 
Find the total number of pins used . 
Ans: -- 
403. During a Pizza buffet where A eats more times 2.4 than B, and 
B eats 6 times less than C. find the leat number of times all the 
three has to eat. 404. Last Year my cousin came to my place and we 
played a game where the loosing one has to give one chocolate to 
the person who won the game .At the end of the vacation,i.e the day 
my cousin was leaving she counted number of games that i won an 
she won. At last she gave me a total of 8 chocolates even though she 
won about 12 games. Find the member of games that we played. 
Ans: -- 
405. A tree on first day grows 1/2 of its size second day 1/3rd of its 
size on the previous day similarly than 1/4th and so on. u have to 
calculate after how many days the tree will be 100 times of its 
original size. 
Ans -198 days 
406. three person are there let A B C one always tell truth one 
always lie and one sometimes tell truth they are standing in 
straight line the first person who is senior most and always tells 
truth tells in middle A is standing the middle one says C is in the 
third position the last one says B is in second position i.e. middle 
Ans: -- 
407. A,B,C,D and E are juniors and F,G,H,I are seniors you have to 
make three groups each congaing three person such that in each 
group one senior is there and some other conditions which I cant 
recall exactly but was like that if this person will be in group than 
this cant be in the same group . 
408. there are 100 teams in a football knockout tournament how 
many matches should be held to get the winner answer is 99 i.e. 
one less than the no of teams box in every match on team goes out 
Ans: -- 
409.A car traveling with uniform speed. There r 15 poles. A car 
travel from 1 to 10th pole in 10 seconds. the poles are equally 
spaced. then how many seconds it takes to reach the 15th pole? (4) 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Ans: -- 
410. A boy jump to the river from the bridge. He swim opposite 
direction of the stream. After 1000 yards he noted that his hat was 
fallen at the bridge. The he goes to take the hat. He didn’t change 
his speed. What is the velocity of stream? (4) 
Ans: -- 
411. Uncles A bought a Hat & Suit for Rs.15.Aunty B bought a Suit 
with as much as cost of uncle’s Hat. Then reaming cost he bought 
Dresses. Dresses cost is one rupee more than his hat’s cost. Then 
she told him his hat’s hat is 1 and ½ cost of her hat. They spend 
equal amount on their purchase . 
a. Then uncle said how much is the cost of Hat. 
b. How much they spend altogether ? (4) 
Ans: -- 
412. There are 17 brown ties,13 red ties, 9 green ties, 5 blue ties and 
2 white ties. Then a man takes a tie. so, how many times he at least 
take tie to get the 2 ties In same colour? (6) 
Ans: -- 
413. Mrs. Bar binger bought some plates on Saturday for $1.30, 
when everything was being sold two cents below the regular price. 
She exchanged those plates on Monday, at their regular price, for 
cups & saucers. Cost of one plate equals cost of one plate & one 
saucer. She returned home with 16 more articles than before. 
Since, saucers cost only 3 cents each, she bought 10 more saucers 
than cups. The puzzle is, how many cups could she have bought on 
Saturday, for $1.30? 
ANS.: 13 cups 
******************************************************* 
On Monday: cup = 12 cents, saucer = 3 cents, plate = 15 cents 
On Saturday: cup = 10 cents, saucer = 1 cent, plate = 13 cents 
******************************************************* 
414. Mr. and Mrs. ABC purchase suit and hats for 15 Rs. then from 
remaining money Mrs. ABC purchase A dress. She said " My dress 
cost is more than 1 Rs from your hat's cost. she also added "if we 
divide our money and then purchase and cost of my hat is 3 and 1/2 
times yours hat then we had spend equal money" a. " if that " 
condition fallows what is price of his hat? b. Total amount spend ? 
Ans. hat= 6 Rs , Total = 22 Rs. ( not sure) 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
415. My rack contains 8 Red colour ties, 13 violate colour ties,10 
Blue colour ties, 5 Pink colour ties, 4 green colour ties. If electricity 
gone and i want at least two ties of same colour then how many ties 
I should take out from my rack? 
Ans : 6 ties. 
416. Two trains leaving from two station 50 miles away from each 
other with constant speed of 60 miles per hour, approaches 
towards each other on different tracks. if length of each train is 1/6 
mile. when they meet How much time they need to pass each other 
totally? 
ANS : 10 sec. ( not sure) 
417. All handsome, fair skinned, muscular, lean, employed, and 
rich men are tall. All handsome men are fair skinned. Some 
muscular men are handsome. Some muscular men are not fair 
skinned. All lean men are muscular. No lean man is handsome. No fair 
skinned man who is not handsome is rich. All tall men who are neither fair 
skinned nor muscular are employed. 
1. pramod is not fair skinned. Which of the following must be true ? 
(a) pramod is employed 
(b) if pramod is muscular, he is neither handsome nor lean 
(c) if pramod is tall, he is employed or muscular. 
(d) if pramod is not employed, he is muscular. 
(e) if pramod is tall, he may be muscular or handsome, but not both. 
2. which must be false if the information given is true ? 
(a) no lean men are fair skinned. 
(b) some fair skinned are lean. 
(c) some rich men are both fair skinned and muscular. 
(d) some tall men are neither fair skinned nor employed 
(e) some rich men are lean 
3. which of the following can be deduced from the information 
given ? 
(a) all rich men are handsome 
(b) some rich men are handsome 
(c) some rich men are employed 
(d) some rich men are muscular 
(e) all rich men are handsome, muscular, or employed 
4. which cannot be shown to be true or false on the basis of the 
information given ? 
I. No fair skinned or muscular man is employed 
II. Some muscular men are fair skinned but not handsome 
III. No fair skinned man both handsome and lean 
(a) I only               (b) II only  

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
(c) III only             (d) I and II  
(e) II and III 
Ans: -- 
418. In Mulund, the shoe store is closed every Monday, the 
boutique is closed every Tuesday, the grocery store is closed every 
Thursday and the bank is open only on Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday. Everything is closed on Sunday. One day A, B, C and D went 
shopping together, each with a different place to go. They made the 
following statements: A D and I wanted to go earlier in the week 
but there wasn’t day when we could both take care of our errands. 
B I did not want to come today but tomorrow I will not be able to do 
what I want to do. C I could have gone yesterday or the day before 
just as well as today. D Either yesterday or tomorrow would have 
suited me. Which place did each person visit ? 
Ans: -- 
419. The Novice hockey tournaments are on for beginners. Just 
three teams are in the league, and each plays the other two teams 
just once. Only part of the information appears in the result chart, 
which is given below. Team Games Won Lost Tied Goals For Goals 
against A 2 1 0 B 2 1 1 2 C 2 The scoring pattern in the tournament is 
as follows: Two points are awarded to the winning team. In case of 
a tie, both teams are awarded one point, so the total points in the 
standings should always equal the total number of games played ( 
since each game played is counted as one for each of the two 
participating teams).Of course, total goals scored for and goals 
scored against must be the same, since every goal scored for one 
team is scored against another. The games are played in the 
following order: Game 1: A Vs B; Game 2: A Vs C; Game B Vs C Can 
you determine the score of each of the above games ? 
Ans: -- 
420. A recent murder case centered around the six men, clam, flip, 
grout, herm, mast, and Walt. In one order or another these man 
were the victim, the murderer, the witness, the police, the judge, 
and the hangman. The facts of the case were simple. The victim had 
died instantly from the effect of gunshot wound inflicted a shot. 
After a lengthy trial the murderer was convicted, sentenced to 
death, and hanged. V Mast knew both the victim and the murderer. 
v In court the judge asked clam his account of the shooting. V Walt 
was the last of the six to see flip alive. V The police testified that he 
picked up grunt near the place where the body was found. V Herm 
and Walt never met. What role did each of the following play in this 
melodrama ? 
(a) Murderer 
(b) Victim 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
(c) Judge 
(d) Witness 
Ans: -- 
421.A alone can do a work in 6 days B alone can do in 8 days with 
help of c they finished the work in 3 days. If the agreed sum is 640 
what is the share of c.(refer Rs agarwal) 
Ans: -- 
 (422) A boy goes to school from his house. on one fourth oh his 
way to school, he crosses a machinery station. And on one third of 
his way to school, he crosses a Railway station. He crossed the 
machinery station at 7:30 and he crosses the Railway station at 
7:35. When does he leave the house & when does he reach the 
school ? (5M) 
Ans: -- 
423.A drives a car four times a lap 10,20 30,60 Kmph what is the 
average speed. 
Ans: -- 
424.speed of boat in still water 10 km,if speed up stream is 24 km 
and speed down stream is 16 what is speed of the river. 
Ans: -- 
425.If grand father age is sum all the three grand children whose 
age r in equal interval what is the age of the grand father? 
Ans: -- 
426.In a grass field if 40 cow could eat for 40 days. The same grass 
field can feed 30 cows for 60 days. how long will it feed 20 cows? 
Ans: -- 
 (427) An Eraser, Pencil, Notebook together costs $1.00. Notebook 
costs more than the cost of 2 Pencils. 3 Pencil costs more than 4 
Erasers. 3 Erasers costs more than a Notebook. How much does a 
pencil costs? (5M) 
Ans: -- 
 (428) Four persons A,B,C,D were there. All were of different 
weights. All Four gave a statement. Among the four statements only 
the person who is lightest in weight of all others gave a true 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
statement. 
A Says : B is heavier than D. 
B Says : A is heavier than C. 
C Says : I am heavier than D. 
D Says : C is heavier than B. Find the lightest & List the persons in 
ascending order according to their weights. (5M) 
Ans: -- 
428. A man was traveling to a place 30 miles away from starting 
point. he was speeding at 60 miles/hr. but when he came back, his 
car got breakdown and half an hour was wasted in repairing that. 
altogether he took 1 hr for return journey. Find the avg. speed of 
the whole journey. 
Ans: -- 
429.I'M NOT VERY SURE REGARDING THIS QUESTION. A 
detective was assigned to generate a code using 4 digits, so that no 
one could break it. he knew that if the code starts with 0,5 or 7 it 
will be cracked. so how many numbers can be formed using 4 
digits. 
Ans: -- 
430. A cow was standing on a bridge, 5feet away from the middle of 
the bridge. suddenly a lightning express with 90 miles/hr was 
coming towards the bridge from nearest end of the cow. seeeing 
this the cow ran towards the express and managed to escape when 
the train is one feet away from the bridge. if it would have ran to 
opposite direction (i.e. away from train) it would have been hit the 
train one ft away from the end of the bridge. Calculate the length of 
bridge. 
Ans: -- 
431. there are 3 towns attacked by 3 dragons-x,y,z. Number of days 
x attack a town is equal to number of days y attacking another 
town. Number of days x attack is equal to half the square root of 
number of days z attacking a town. number of days y attacking the 
town is twice the square root of z. calculate how much days the 
curse of each dragon be. 
Ans: -- 
432. A town have a population of 500000 and 42% of males and 
28% of females are married to same town. find the total number of 
males 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
433. A and B came back home after their exam and their father 
asked them about the test. A replied-- 1/3rd of my answers were 
wrong B replied-- 5 of my answers were wrong but together we got 
3/4 of answers right. How many questions were there for the 
exam? 
Ans: -- 
 (434) We are given 100 pieces of a puzzle. If fixing two 
components together is counted as 1 move ( a component can be 
one piece or an already fixed set of pieces), how many moves do we 
need to fix the entire puzzle. 
Ans: 18 
(435) This problem has appeared b4. 4 kids from 2 families Gupta 
and Sharma... their names are Praveen, Pra... blah blah...and some 
relation... which family and what are their ages.. 
Ans:  
Sinhas - 11(praveen) 
Sinhas - 5(lalit) 
Gupta - 10(pratap) 
Gupta - 7 (Rajesh) 
(436) This was one hell of a long problem - But it has appeared 
before.. Two girls after one guy ( sue, sew and Sam I think). Sue 
first asks his house no... he replies with two statements (second is 
false) so she goes to the wrong house... blah blah.. same thing 
happens with the other gal What was the house number of sue and 
sam 
Ans: 20 and 24 
(437) A complex statement - about an aero plane coming late. "The 
boy says if it was 6 hours later, the waiting time would be 1/5th of 
the time if the plane had come 2 hours earlier instead. the plane is 
supposed to come at midnight 
Ans 11.00 am 
(438) There are 4 statements and 4 guys ( Dave, Gus, someone else 
and one more someone else) - sorry my memory is rotten! Anyway 
now these guys make 4 statements about. who committed the 
crime. We need to find out who did it if  
(i) all but one are saying false and  
(ii)all but one are saying true 
Ans: (I) Archie ( ii) Tony 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
(439) A kid goes to a bank with a che    que... Comes back and says 
he spent 35 cents .. his mom says you have brought back twice what 
u very supposed to get. What happened is the novice bank clerk 
gave dollars for cents and vice-versa (quote silly) anyway... What 
was the actual amount?? 
Ans: don't know... 
440. John had decided to divide his RS.1000/- for his four children 
according to their ages. The elder child should be a RS.20/- extra 
for each than his younger child . What will be the share of Mahesh 
whose the youngest?[3 marks] 
Ans: -- 
441.One side of the measuring arm was longer than the other side 
.If 3 pyramid width was placed in longer side it is equal to 2 cube 
width in the shorter arm. If 8 pyramid width was placed in longer 
arm then it is equal to 6 cube width. Let 1 pyramid width is equal to 
10kg.What is the wgt of cube width? 
Ans: -- 
442. A,B,C,D are four girls who have 1,2,3,4 apples with them 
respectively. If E have apples equal to his sister, F have twice the 
apples as his sister, G have thrice the apples than his sister and I 
have four times the apples than my sister. All together we have 32 
apples . A,B,C,D are the sisters of whom and whom? 
Ans: -- 
443.Andy,Brian,Cedric,Dave are architects ,barber, case worker 
and dentist but not in the order.  
*Architect will have the letter ‘r’ in his name. 
*At least one of the person should have coincidence in the first 
letter of their name and their occupation but not all [e.g.: andy-
architect] 
* Barber and dentist share their name by only one letter What is 
the occupation of each person? 
Ans: -- 
444.There are 100 bulbs connected to 100 switches 
• 1 to 100 all the switches are put ON. 
• Only even numbers of switches are used i.e., ON means OFF and 
vice versa 
• Similarly odd numbers of switches are done 
• Switch number which is divisible by 3 are done similarly 
• Switch number which are divisible by 4 are done similarly This 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
process is done up to 100 divisible. When do all the bulbs are in ON 
and OFF condition?[8marks] 
Ans: -- 
445. A man wrote his “will’ accordingly the money was also shared 
between his car driver,5 sons and 5 daughters. First he gave one 
rupee to his car driver, remaining 1/5 of the money is given to his 
1st son .again he gave one to his car driver and remaining 1/5 of the 
money is given to his 2nd son, continuing the process until 5 sons 
are completed .After that he remaining money is divided between 
his 5 daughters. What was total amount of money? 
Ans: -- 
446. 4 people identified a criminal and their statements are:  
# A: Eyes was blue ,height was tall and he wore a hat & a vest. 
# B: Eyes was dark , height was short and he wore a hat & a vest 
# C: Eyes was green ,height was medium and he wore hat & a tie. 
# D: Eyes was grey ,height was tall and he wore a rain coat and a 
hat. Everyone said only one correct identify other two was untrue . 
How can be the criminal identified? 
Ans: -- 
447. A wall clock was slow by 10minutes . According to the wall 
clock, a table clock was 10 minutes ahead of it . According to the 
table clock an alarm clock was 5 minutes behind and according to 
the alarm clock wrest watch was 5 minutes fast. Atnoon all the 
clocks were adjusted .What will be the time at 6 P.M wrist watch? 
Ans: -- 
448.Professor Kittredge’s literature seminar includes students 
with varied tastes in poetry. All those in the seminar who enjoy the 
poetry of browning also enjoy the poetry of Eliot. Those who enjoy 
the poetry of Eliot despise the poetry of Coleridge. Some of those 
who enjoy the poetry of Eliot also enjoy the poetry of Auden. All of 
those who enjoy the poetry of Coleridge also enjoy the poetry of 
Donne. Some of those who enjoy the poetry of Auden also despise 
the poetry of Coleridge. All of those who enjoy the poetry of Donne 
also enjoy the poetry of Frost  
Miss Garfield enjoys the poetry of Donne. Which of the following 
must be true? 
(A) she may or may not enjoy the poetry of Coleridge. 
(B) She does not enjoy the poetry of Browning. 
(C) She does not enjoy the poetry of Eliot. 
(D) She enjoys the poetry of Coleridge. 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Mr.Huxtable enjoys the poetry of Browing. He may also enjoy any 
of the following poets except 
(A) Auden. 
(B) Coleridge 
(C) Donne 
(D) Eliot 
(E) Frost 
Miss Ingush enjoys the poetry of Coleridge. Which of the following 
must be false? 
(A) she does not enjoy the poetry of Auden. 
(B) She enjoys the poetry of Donne. 
(C) She enjoys the poetry of Frost. 
(D) She does not enjoy the poetry of Browning. 
(E) She may enjoy the poetry of Eliot. 
Based on the information provided, which of the following 
statements concerning the members of the seminar must be true? 
(A) All the those who enjoy the poetry of Eliot also enjoy the poetry of 
Browning. 
(B) None of those who despise the poetry of Frost enjoy the poetry of Auden. 
(C) Some of those who enjoy the poetry of Auden despise the poetry of 
Coleridge. 
(D) None of those who enjoy the poetry of Browning despise the poetry of 
Donne. 
(E) Some of those who enjoys the poetry of Frost despise the poetry of Donne. 
a. Rimmie wears a hat only if George wears a tie. b. George wears a scarf only 
if Johnnie wears a tie. c. Vickie wears a goggles only if Ramie wears a hat. d, e, 
f, g, h some what like this there are 8 statements, from that we have to 
determine who wears what. 
Ans: -- 
449. 8 Kgs and 14 Ligs can do 510 tors of work in10days. 13 Kgs and 
6 Ligs can do 484 tors of work in 12 days. Then find work done by 
Kgs and Ligs individually in tors/hr? 
Ans: -- 
450.There is a 3 digested number. 3rd number is the square root of 
the 1st digit. 2nd digit is the sum of 1st and 3rd.And that number is 
divisible by 2,3,6,7. What is that number? 
Ans: -- 
451. A boy is playing a game. He took totally 55 blocks and kept like 
placing some x number on the ground, next one less than that 
above those blocks like that till the topmost one is one, like: 
x 
x x 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
x x x 
x x x x 
x x x x x 
x x x x x x 
x x x x x x x 
x x x x x x x x 
x x x x x x x x x 
x x x x x x x x x x 
(They didn’t gave this pictuire, but my explanation is not clear, 
that's I gave u this picture) the question is how many blocks are 
there at the base level? 
Ans: -- 
452. There r 100 nations competing for a world-cup. The board 
decided to make Knock-out series. How many matches to be played 
for deciding the world champion? 
Ans: -- 
453.There is log weighing 30kgs. The log having twice thickness 
and twice short as first one will weigh how much ?? 
Ans: -- 
454. there is truck which should reach some place at 11`o clock , if 
it travels with 30 mph it reaches i hour before , if it travels with 20 
mph it reaches 1 hour late. what is the distance it must be traveled 
and what is the speed it must maintain to retch at exact time? 
Ans: 120 miles and 24 mph 
455.There is a square cabbage patch. He told his sister that i have a 
larger patch than last year and hence 211 more cabbages this year. 
Then how many cabbages I have this year.? 
Ans:106*106=11236 
456. there are two clocks one runs 1min/hrs faster and other 
1min/hr slower when will the two clocks have time time difference 
of 1 hr : 
Ans : 30hrs 
457. i take a taxi whose no is 3 digit no. it is not divisible by 2,3,5,7 
but divisible by 11 it is the smallest no possible: 
Ans : 121 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
458. A man brought some watermelons to town and sold them. he 
sold 1/2 more than 1/2 of what he brought and e was left with one 
melon. how many melons did he bring to Town? 
Ans: 3 
459. When u reverse the digits of age of father u will get the age of 
son. one year ago the age of father was twice that of son's age. what 
are the current ages of father and son? 
Ans: 73 & 37 
460. There will be four friends ,one is doctor, one is lawyer... they 
are having four cars one Ferrari, corvette .... there were some 
conditions and we were suppose to find what is profession of each 
one and what car they own. this was the one for 8 marks. 
Ans: -- 
461. There is a circular ring in which there are 12 black mice and 
one white mice . a cat walks circularly in the ring and eats every 
12th mice. where should the cat start so that the white mice is the 
last one to be eaten by cat? 
Ans: if the cat moves circularly it has to start from the 11th mice (clockwise) 
w.r.t. to white one. 
462. A farmer grows four types of crops say W,X,Y & Z . two 
conditions were given:  
1. If the farmer grows crop W in a year then also grows X that year 
2. If the farmer grows crop Z one year then he never grows crop Y 
next year There were 6 choices among which we were suppose to 
find one correct one which does not violate the two conditions the 
choices were some thing like:( first pair denotes crops grown first 
year and second after semicolon represents crops grown next year) 
W,X ; X,Z (this one is a valid one) 
Ans: I don’t remember the choices but the ans was option C 
463. In a class there are less than 500 students . when it is divided 
by 3 it gives a whole number. Similarly when it is divided by 4,5 or 7 
gives a whole number. find the no. of students in the class  
Ans: 420 
464. There are three types of birds A,B & C . A costs 5pounds, B 
costs 3 Pounds and C costs 1/3 of a pound. find the no. of A,B &C 
such that u will get 100 birds for 100 pounds. (I think we were 
suppose to find 3 answers since there were 3 rows in the answer) 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
Ans: A : 4 B : 18 C: 78 
465. There are 5 persons who have won top five places in an event 
in Olympics . one of them asks all the five regarding their positions, 
they reply as 
a: "I am not the last" 
b: "c is in third place" 
c: "E is behind A" 
d: "B is in first place" 
e: "D is not the first" The persons who have won gold and silver have lied find 
the positions in order(format: name of first, name of second,..) 
Ans: B,D,E,A,C 
466. A coffee seller has two types of coffee Brand A costing 5 bits 
per pound and Brand B costing 3 bits per pound. he mixes two 
brands to get a 40 pound mixture. he sold this at 6 bits per pound. 
the seller gets a profit of 33 1/2 percent. how much he has used 
Brand A in the mixture?  
Ans: 30 pounds 
467. You are given with two identical iron bars. one of them is 
magnetized and the other is not. u are suppose to find which one is 
magnetized. u are not suppose to use any other thing. my ans: first 
time I told that i will suspend the bars freely. but then they told me 
that I am not suppose to use any external help. I took some time 
and then realized that a magnetic bar in the middle repels towards 
the end . I told that place one of the bars horizontal & then move 
the other one perpendicularly to it . if it repels towards any of ends 
then the horizontal one is magnetized if it attracts then is not. They 
were convinced 
Ans: -- 
468: What is the result of (x-a)*(x-b)*(x-c)*...........*(x-y)*(x-z) ? my  
Ans: I told that since there is a term (x-x) the answer is zero. They 
told ok. finally they asked me whether I have any questions to them 
I asked them what is the duration of training and what is field 
which i will be working on if I get selected. Anyone looking for infy 
solve Shakuntala devi's 2 books, George summers and Ravi narula 
this would me more than enough. most important thing is develop 
or logical analysis skill and try to remember the approach rather 
than answers. don’t panic in the interview just be cool and 
confident u will definitely get through. Best of luck for all 
Ans: -- 

http://placementpapers.net - Original Placement Papers Website for Freshers 
http://placementpapers.net - Placement Papers, Resume Samples, 
http://placementpapers.net/jobs
 - Daily Fresher Jobs, Interview Tips. 
 (469)  
(a) 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 5 6 4 7 3 8 2 _ _ 
(b) 2 4 16 512 _ 
 write the next elements in the series. 
 