

  
TCS Placement Papers 
Downloaded From- RecruitmentResult.com Page 1 
 
 
Question 1: 
Directions: 
1. All the phrases given below must be used. 
2. Email must have minimum 50 words otherwise it will be considered invalid. 
3. Addressing and signing must be done as provided in the given question. 
4. Use proper Grammar and Punctuation. 
5. Additional Phrases apart from the provided one can also be used. 
Email: 
As a member of your residential society, write an email to the inspector of local Police 
station, Mr.Sharma, informing him about miscreants who ride their bikes rashly every 
evening outside your society. Sign the email as William. 
residential area – ride – rashly – children – play – elderly – walk – grocery shop – across 
the road – dangerous – accidents – nuisance – action – immediately. 
Answer: 
I am the resident of this society and I would like to complain about some bikers ride rashly 
in a residential area.Evening time children are used to playing and elderly walk on the road 
and women go to grocery shop.The bikers ride across the road in the dangerous manner 
and it may lead to accidents.I want you to take some action to stop this kind of nuisance 
immediately.I will be thankful to you. 
Thanks and regards, 
William 
Question 2: 
Email writing example  :  
You are Joy, a part of corporate communication team in your company. The working time 
period is revised as 8:30 am to 5:00pm. Using the following phrases, write an email with a 
minimum of 50 words and a maximum of 80 words to the employees in your company 
informing the same. 
by 30 minutes to avoid traffic – effect from next week – lunch duration – revised working 
time – reduced by 10 minutes – 
free breakfast – office will start earlier – till the end of rainy season – will be in effect 
Answer: 
Dear all, 
The reporting time has been reduced by 30 minutes to avoid traffic. This will be in effect 
from next week. The lunch duration has also been reduced by 10 minutes. The revised 
working time is from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm. You will get free breakfast. The office will start 
earlier till the end of rainy season. This schedule will be in effect from next week. 
Thanks and regards, 
Joy 

  
TCS Placement Papers 
Downloaded From- RecruitmentResult.com Page 2 
 
 
Question 3: 
Email: 
Payment processing system – Schedule – 15th – month – Unexpected system crash – bug 
fix and maintenance – 3 days – Overall delay – 10 days – includes recovery of lost work – 
will not recur 
Answer: 
Dear Mr. Roy, 
Your project the ‘ Payment processing system ‘ was going on smoothly and was scheduled 
to complete on 15th of this month. However, we we faced an unexpected system crash 
while working on your project. The bug fix and maintenance took 3 days. So now we are 
facing an overall delay of 10 days. The delay time also includes the recovery of lost work as 
almost 70% of the work was completed. I assure you that such a situation will not recur in t 
future. 
Thanks & Regard, 
Indraja N 
Question 4: 
Email: 
You are the project manager and you took Billy to your project for delivering a service. 
Using the following phrases write an E-mail thanking Billy for completing your project work. 
Accepting join – project months’ time – location constraints – flexibility – hard work –
technical expertise invaluable – high complexity task – co-operating – deliver service –
critical moment – deadlines – saviour – look forward – to working with you – all the best 
Answer: 
Dear Bill, 
Thanks for accepting join from our company. This project months time you have joined our 
company.In our company we have good location constraints and flexibility of timings.Their 
are lot of hard work is done by our employees.We know that your technical expertise 
invaluable for your work.we have an high complexity task in recent project .Thank your for 
joining and co-operating in this project.We deliver service very fast because of your help 
work in project.In this critical moment and deadlines ,you are like a savior. 
We look forward to work with you and all the best. 
Thanks and Regards, 
Ramya 
Question 5: 
Email: 
As a supplier, write an email to the manager of M/S Big wheel Manufacturing Company, 
Mr.Chopra, intimating of their payment that is due for the products delivered to them three 
months ago. Sign the email as Ramesh 

  
TCS Placement Papers 
Downloaded From- RecruitmentResult.com Page 3 
 
On time – delivery of goods – three months – credit period – 
overdue – payment – of the earliest – longstanding – relationship 
Answer: 
Hi Mr.Chopra 
You are a valuable customer of our company for a very long time and we appreciate your 
business.  And you always make payments on time .  But recently, we observed that we 
have not received payment for the delivery of goods we made on 15th may this year.  Three 
months credit period was also over and payment is over due.  I request you to make 
payment for the above goods delivered of the earliest.  We are looking forward for a 
longstanding relationship with your company. 
Thanks and regards 
Ramesh 
 
 
 